that	Wankers!	I' m surrounded by wankers.	I guess you wanna hear me say that that was creative and inventive and fun to watch.	Is that what you were thinking, Wagstaff?
that	Wankers!	I' m surrounded by wankers.	I guess you wanna hear me say that that was creative and inventive and fun to watch.	Is that what you were thinking, Wagstaff?
that	She' il have our guts for garters.	If you care to look again... at page two, paragraph four of my report, sir... you will note that I saw someone paying off Gonzales.	Now, assuming that that was for Havelock' s murder... then there' s still a glimmer of hope.	I don' t follow.
easy	Lakchume.	Pick up the body.	Easy easy...	Be careful be careful.
meng	Attack!	Xu Gui!	General Meng Meng Jie?	The Chancellor wants you dead.
anything	I' m hot	Maybe I should get you a cool cloth	I haven' t done anything anything like this... happened...	It' s OK... this doesn' t have to mean anything
hey	OK if you haunt your guys all that way you had better tell me you won the bet	I think I' m the loser on this one...	Hey hey hey.. don' t let it get to you... even Tiger Woods slices now and then	Fucking Andrew!
that	I called your mission president You checked up on me huh?	I was worried sick about you.. and you know what he said?	Your missionary companion told him that that Christian person... you were nothing more than a bet he made	That' s not true...
you	Do you have any idea where it might go?	None.	I' m sure if something occurs to you you' il let Lieutenant Burrows know immediately.	My men will be escorting you home... to grieve.
you	- Right.	- Oh, I feel dead.	- Anybody ever tell you you "look" dead?	Oh, yeah.
hey	I dont even know if this is my name.	I feel like we' ve been here for hours and I stil can' t remember anything!	Hey hey hey.	Give her A moment...
that	How do you know my name?	I know that you suffocated those kittens when you were 13.	I know that that scar on your head was self- inflicted... and I know that you sold Billy the gun... that he killed his brother with.	They say that friends help you move... but good friends help you move bodies, don' t they?
that	- They were having you on.	No way.	I think that that' s why they' re gone.	I think they' ve found something...
that	- They were having you on.	No way.	I think that that' s why they' re gone.	I think they' ve found something...
out	- [Gasps]	- I found you.	Out Out Get out of here	And close the goddamn door
kitty	- [People Chattering]	- [Person Over Loudspeaker Indistinct]	Over there is Here Kitty Kitty.	That' s where the agency held my tryouts when I was made new.
theta	- Trusted associates working for a man who had created a food substitute.	Anton Reich.	EnCrypt, this is Diana 1716 theta theta 6.	- Rook activation override.
theta	- Trusted associates working for a man who had created a food substitute.	Anton Reich.	EnCrypt, this is Diana 1 716 theta theta 6.	- Rook activation override.
that	- What --?	- I just punched up one and I' m opening --	-- imagine that that has something to do with the results the 378 was getting.	That' s it.
any	Possibly.	It still requires more research.	You should know, those infesting the colony, are behaving in an organised fashion, unlike any any replicators we have encountered before.	Perhaps they are being controlled by a human form leader, who has yet to reveal itself.
very	here we are, Harry you go first, Dear but Harry' s never traveled by Floo powder, Mom Floo powder? oh, you go first, Ron, then Harry can see how it' s done and you go	Diagon Alley!	you see? it' s quite easy don' t be afraid come come on and you go, let' s bow your head that' s fine take your Floo powder that' s it, very good don' t forget to speak very very clearly	D- Dia- gon Alley
voice	Let me rip you.... |Let me tear you....	Let me kill you..]	what? sorry? that voice voice? didn' t you hear it? what are you talking about?	Harry are you getting a lit bit drowsy?
voice	spooky	[I smell blood, let me rip you, let me kill you, kill....]	Harry! did you hear it? hear what? that voice voice? what voice?	I heard it first at Lockhart office, then again, it just it' s moving
kill	Harry! did you hear it? hear what? that voice voice? what voice?	I heard it first at Lockhart office, then again, it just it' s moving	I think it' s gonna kill kill?	Harry, wait, don' t be so fast
you	Harry Potter caught the Snitch, Gryffindor win!	thank you are you ok? no, I think my arm broke do not worry, Harry	I will fix that of your arms straight away no, not you you don' t know what are you saying... now this won' t hurt a bit	BRAKYAMY IMENDO
broken	I will fix that of your arms straight away no, not you you don' t know what are you saying... now this won' t hurt a bit	BRAKYAMY IMENDO	ah, yes, well, that can sometimes happen but the point is you can no longer feel any pain and very clearly, the bones are not broken broken? there is no bones left much more flexible though oh, Mr Malfoy I will make things as fast as you can go out my way, out my way	You should have come straight to me!
pago	Listen, this is for real.	I can get us an advance on Internet pre- sales.	So you need to just go to Pago Pago or something.	Get some girls, do them all.
bora	I don' t care.	Go on vacation.	It' s Bora Bora, J.	I got enough girls here.
bora	Go!	Move!	- Bora Bora!	- What?
bora	- What?	I can' t hear you!	Bora Bora.	You' re getting burnt.
leeke	I want to get down.	I' m Carmen Cortez, special agent of the O. S. S.	I' m Romero, sole inhabitant of this island of Leeke Leeke...... sole human inhabitant, that is.	And you are?
heh	All right, buddy.	Let' s kick their butts.	-- Heh heh heh.	We' re waiting.
leeke	Ahh!	Well, well, well, well, whoo!	Man, you' re not an easy man to find, you and your island of Leeke Leeke.	I' m Dinky.
billions	No way!	This is our private stock pile for ice age.	Sub- artic temperatures will force us underground for billions billions years.	So you got three melons?
reading	I happen to be a school prefect you on the other hand have no bussiness wondering the corridors at this time of night what' s your name again? eh, I' m....	Crabbe and Goyle where have you two been? pigging out in the Great Hall all this time? why are you wearing glasses?	I..., I am reading reading?	I didn' t know you could read what are you doing down here, Weasley? mind your attitude, Malfoy
come	what' s that you got, Hagrid? oh, it' s Flesh- Eatin 'Slug Repellent for the mandrake, you know according to proffessor Sprout, they still gonna need bit grown- up to do, |but once their acne' s been cleared up, we' il be able to chop them up, |stew them, and then we' il get those people down at hospital unpetrified in meantime, you know, you three, best look after yourselves all right?	hello, Nevill	Harry, I don' t who did it, but you' d be better come come on	it has to be a Gryffindor nobody else know our password unless he wasn' t a student whoever he was, he must be looking something he found it
you	who is it? don' t panic	Hagrid, is that you? we are friends of Hagrid' s	and you you are Aragog, aren' t you? yes	Hagrid has never sent men into our hollow before he is in trouble, up in the school, for the punish of attacks they think it' s Hagrid they think he open the chamber of secrets they think he opened the chamber of secrets like before that' s a lie
more	I wish you were here, Hermione we need you now more than ever	what' s that?	Ron this why Hermione was in the library the day she was attacked come on of many fearsome beasts and monsters that roam our land none is more more deadly than the Basilisk capable of living for hundreds of years instant death awaits any who meets this giantic serpent' s eyes	Spiders flee before it
justin	because no one did look in the eye not directly at least	Colin saw it through his camera	Justin Justin must' ve seen the basilisk through Nearly Headless Nick!	Nick got the full blast of it, | but he is a ghost, he couldn' t die again and Hermione had the mirror
harry	I am sure this must be 60 feet long hard to a liar this one	adventure ends here, boys but don' t fright the world will know our story but however it' s too late to save the girl how you two tragically lost your minds |at the sight of her mangled body so, you first, Mr. Potter say goodbye to your memories Obliviate!	Harry Harry	Ron
you	Why do you care how I escaped? |Voldemort was after your time......	Voldemort is my past, present, and future	I AM LORD VOLDEMORT you you are the heir of Slytherin you are LORD VOLDEMORT so we... you didn' t think I was going to keep|my filthy Muggle father' s name? no	I fashioned myself a new name a name I knew wizards everywhere would one day fear to speak, when I had become the greatest sorcerer in the world!
certain	Harry	First, I want to thank you, Harry you must' ve shown me the real loyalty down the chamber nothing but that could have called Fawkes to you and second	I sense that something is troubling you am I right, Harry? it' s just you see, sir, I couldn' t help but notice certain thing, certain certain similarities between Tom Riddle and me	I see, well you can speak Parseltongue,?
and	Au!	I know what a short cut is...	Look, either we slip through there and and beat the humans at the Glacier Pass.	Or take the long way and miss them.
billions	No way!	This is our private stuff for ice age.	Some of us has been looking around for billions billions years.	So you got three melons?
billions	No way!	This is our private stuff for ice age.	Some of us has been looking around for billions billions years.	So you got three melons?
dooby	You dance to it.	Ooby dooby dooby dooby...	Dooby dooby doo- wah doo- wah doo- wah...	Well, you wiggle to the left...
goo	I' m led to believe that you' re an extension of my personality.	- Yes, I' m the alter- ego man.	- And I' m the ego man, goo goo, g' joob.	I' m glad you asked me that.
duran	It' s a secret.	A secret?	Have you ever heard of a young scientist named Duran Duran?	- Yes.
duran	- Recently en route to the North Star...... he vanished into the uncharted regions of Tau Ceti.	But... why is that a secret?	Because Duran Duran is the inventor of the Positronic Ray.	- It' s a weapon.
duran	Plus, you' re a 5- star Astro- Navigatrix.	Your mission then:	Find Duran Duran...... and use your incomparable talents to preserve the security of the stars...... and our own motherplanet.	How do you read me?
duran	- Object in transit.	Object received.	In order to test for Duran Duran' s presence, simply press this contact.	- Light will glow.
duran	Must be a Galactic 5 dialect.	But I haven' t skied in ages!	But that' s Duran Duran' s spaceship!	Hi!
duran	- I see.	Thank you.	Ever heard the name Duran Duran?	I know nothing.
duran	I think I' ve found the trouble.	You may proceed now to Sogo.	It' s there you will find Duran Duran Jr.	If he still lives...
duran	- It no longer matters.	It' s the past.	- Have you heard of Duran Duran?	- Duran Duran?
duran	It' s the past.	- Have you heard of Duran Duran?	- Duran Duran?	Yes, Duran Duran.
duran	- Have you heard of Duran Duran?	- Duran Duran?	Yes, Duran Duran.	He' s an astronaut from Earth.
duran	- That is a Grand Grotesque.	That' s the classic way of ending life in the labyrinth.	Professor Ping, have you ever heard of Duran Duran?	Duran Duran from Earth?
duran	That' s the classic way of ending life in the labyrinth.	Professor Ping, have you ever heard of Duran Duran?	Duran Duran from Earth?	Yes, indeed.
duran	Now, you want some privileged information about a certain man, yes?	Yes, I' m here on the orders of the President of the Republic of Earth.	- I' m here to find Duran Duran.	- I don' t mean him, but the angel!
duran	You must tell me!	Did an earth person give you those pills?	- A man called Duran Duran?	- That' s correct.
duran	- Of course, have a secret uniform.	Thank you.	I was sent here by my government to find Duran Duran.	Your government...?
duran	- Perhaps we can strike a bargain.	- What do you mean?	Only the Black Queen knows the whereabouts of Duran Duran.	Her one vulnerable moment is when she' s in her secret Chamber of Dreams.
duran	She sleeps alone in a room above the Mathmos...... surrounded by a wall of energy, to which she has a secret key.	There is, however, a second key, which is now in my possession.	You want to find Duran Duran.	I want to capture the Black Queen.
duran	To capture the Black Queen, we need to have a military coup.	We can do this with your weaponry and spacecraft.	Get control of the Black Queen and you' il know where to find Duran Duran.	- Yes, I see.
duran	I' il do things to you that are beyond all known philosophies.	Wait until I get my devices.	Duran Duran?	Oh, recognized me?
duran	No, no, stop!	I command it.	I' m Duran Duran.	I' m Master of the Mathmos.
this	I am busy.	- We have a problem, he/ she looks upward.	- It finishes like this this piece.	- It was not a piece, the count will kill Sunny if I didn' t go ahead with the marriage.
whoop	It' s the Fairy Godmother!	Hello, Far, Far Away!	Can I get a whoop whoop?	May all your endings be happy and...
whoop	It' s the Fairy Godmother!	Hello, Far, Far Away!	Can I get a whoop whoop?	May all your endings be happy and...
some	I swear.	Jason, I told them that I believed you.	I' m gonna ask you some some simple questions.	You' re gonna answer me honestly, or I swear to God I' m gonna kill you.
here	Where, "here"?	The ground?	Here here.	In the building.
montgomery	And it did so with two musical notes.	Hello.	I am looking for Dr. Montgomery Montgomery.	I am Stephano.
nothing	Nothing in the world will keep The count from his beloved bride	Nothing in the world Nothing in the world	Nothing Nothing	What a marvelous day for a marriage.
montgomery	And it did so with two musical notes.	Hello.	I am looking for Dr. Montgomery Montgomery.	I am Stephano.
nothing	Nothing in the world will keep The count from his beloved bride	Nothing in the world Nothing in the world	Nothing Nothing	What a marvelous day for a marriage.
laba	Paralyzed, like stone, for two days.	- What do you call this fella?	- Laba laba batu.	Stone spider.
mat	We gots to get paid.	And on that note, we cue the music.	- Mat mat mat - L- L- lum	- Mat mat mat - Lip la
mat	And on that note, we cue the music.	- Mat mat mat - L- L- lum	- Mat mat mat - Lip la	- Mat mat mat - L- L- lum
mat	- Mat mat mat - L- L- lum	- Mat mat mat - Lip la	- Mat mat mat - L- L- lum	- Mat mat meal - Ma ma ma, ma ma- ma ma
mat	- Mat mat mat - Lip la	- Mat mat mat - L- L- lum	- Mat mat meal - Ma ma ma, ma ma- ma ma	Well...
that	And for the record, I ain' t gay.	And for the record, while we' re on the subject...	I knew that that wasn' t a real little boy.	For one more record, he loves the cock.
ooh	The party' s across the street... featuring the greatest band in the world!	Morris Day and the Time!	Ooh ooh ah ah ah!	[Music playing]
ooh	Roll another blunt	Yeah	Ooh ooh ooh	Aw, cool
ooh	I was gonna go to work	But then I got high	Ooh ooh	I just got a new promotion
why	I was gonna pull right over and stop	But I was high	Now I’ m a paraplegic, and I know why Why, man?	Yeah, 'cause I got high
shoop	La da da da da da	He really is high, man	Shoop shoop shooby doo wah	Get jiggy with it
mat	We gots to get paid.	And on that note, we cue the music.	- Mat mat mat - L- L- lum	- Mat mat mat - Lip la
mat	And on that note, we cue the music.	- Mat mat mat - L- L- lum	- Mat mat mat - Lip la	- Mat mat mat - L- L- lum
mat	- Mat mat mat - L- L- lum	- Mat mat mat - Lip la	- Mat mat mat - L- L- lum	- Mat mat meal - Ma ma ma, ma ma- ma ma
mat	- Mat mat mat - Lip la	- Mat mat mat - L- L- lum	- Mat mat meal - Ma ma ma, ma ma- ma ma	Well...
that	And for the record, I ain' t gay.	And for the record, while we' re on the subject...	I knew that that wasn' t a real little boy.	For one more record, he loves the cock.
ooh	The party' s across the street... featuring the greatest band in the world!	Morris Day and the Time!	Ooh ooh ah ah ah!	[Music playing]
ooh	Roll another blunt	Yeah	Ooh ooh ooh	Aw, cool
ooh	I was gonna go to work	But then I got high	Ooh ooh	ljust got a new promotion
shoop	Are you really high now, man?	La da da da da da he really is high, man	Shoop shoop shooby doo wah	Getjiggy with it
that	- Who would choose such a life?	- Can you think of no one?	Do you mean to say that that thing that killed the unicorn...... that was drinking its blood, that was Voldemort?	Do you know what is hidden in the school at this very moment?
that	Yeah. Yeah, I do, because I think tha twhen you ask someone...	- who is involved in a relationship of the heart...	- Uh- huh? Yeah? if they like sex and travel, that that' s -- that' s m- m- mean- spirited.	It' s -- It' s -- It' s stupid.
thing	<i>[ Thing OneJabbering] </ i>	Thing One says he' s Thing One for a reason, and some people should just get used to it.	It' s a Thing thing.	You wouldn' t understand.
ekke	We are now no longer the knights who say "Ni."	We are now the knights who say:	"Ekke Ekke Ekke Ptang Zoo Boing"!	Therefore, we must give you a test.
hoo	- Okay, I have it.	Yes.	Hoo hoo, right?	No?
really	I' d like to sing, a song for you.	Ok, I' il restart again.	I love her, I really really love her.	Make me smile, all the time.
yeah	You name it.	Don' t work there no more.	Yeah yeah, they use poisons, you know, instead of shooters.	Used to..
now	I won' t!	I won' t.	Now now, calm down.	Listen to Uncle Michael.
bella	I' ve never seen better.	Oh.	Bella bella bella, come on!	See Samantha I' m sure we did.
that	Um, where do you have in mind?	- Madagascar.	- Is that that new club on Dean Street?	No, it' s a country off the coast of Africa.
mirror	I' il help you	Complete the spell, my sweet new prince..	Mirror mirror on the wall..	Say it
anytime	As a consolation, I never believed in you either	See, you' re brothers	You' re welcome here anytime Anytime at all	Cos this is your home
you	RaceMan	HARRY POTTER AND THE GOBLET OF FlRE 2 00: 01: 48, 199 -- > 00: 01: 50, 190 Translated From Spanish bY KaiN	What impertinent you you have returned, ColaGusano.	According to memory...... to pains, recently you called home to the culverts.
that	I believe that it needs to look for another place stops to put its rubber to chew, Mr. Fnnigan.	lncreíble.	I believe that that crazy person can see of backs.	And to listen to everything what they say.
you	That it jumps by the window?	That one suffocates?	Many witches and magicians...... they affirm that only they followed the orders of you you know who.	By the influence of the curse empire.
that	Ah, no?	Why no, Granger?	That that is there, is the line of the age.	And Dumbledore drew it.
but	Only if one is......	Nabo Tibetano...... to be able to breathe under the water by one now.	- But but...	- I do not know if there are nabos, but...... there are a braqui- seaweed.
then	- We must do something. - nothing will become.	At moments thus, the Magical world he hopes that their leaders are strong.	- Then then, demuéstralo. - the Match is not going away to cancel.	I will not stay as a cowardly one.
that	I have not said anything on a cemetery.	Wonderful creatures they are those dragoons.	Think that that miserable one had to you noticed if I had not been suggested it?	Think that Cedric Diggory would have said to you...... that you opened the egg in the water if I had not been insinuated it?
that	He - He said that?	I think you' d better go back outside now, Ramon.	<i>Animals can tell us</ i> <i>what they want, </ i> but that doesn' t mean that that' s what' s best for them.	<i>[ Knocking] </ i>
that	Um, where do you have in mind?	- Madagascar.	- Is that that new club on Dean Street?	No, it' s a country off the coast of Africa.
yia	I' m sorry that my Greek isn' t so good.	Mom said that I' d pick it up in no time.	You know, with all the talking, just with you and with Yia Yia.	Lena!
that	I don' t know.	I liked it because, when you first look at it...... it looks kind of forgotten, and then....	But then you realize that that' s why it' s beautiful.	It' s perfect in all its loneliness.
you	Where is that written?	Life isn' t always fair.	I' m telling you you' re messing up the story, now get it right!	Do you want me to go on with this?
you	Where is that written?	Life isn' t always fair.	I' m telling you you' re messing up the story, now get it right!	Do you want me to go on with this?
miss	Sorry	Do you know who I am?	"Miss Miss Phoenix Black, I' m sorry"	Do you know how often I shop here...
that	There' s a lot about it we don' t know yet, and a lot we' re gonna have to find out from theJaps themselves.	We used to say that the only good Jap was a dead Jap.	I' il remind you that that' s changed.	From here on in, a good Jap is also a Jap prisoner who tells us things.
heh	Go ahead, it' s all right.	There' s an old witch of a nurse out there with an ear like radar and a tongue like a fire bell.	Heh heh.	You know what psychological migraine is?
heh	You know what psychological migraine is?	A lot of pain in the head, no functional disorder.	Heh heh, for a guy who was a manure spreader in South Dakota 3 years ago, you' re pretty hep.	Well, I always wanted to be a doctor.
heh	What' s the joke?	My bein 'here.	Heh heh, well, some joke.	Yes, it is.
dub	Fiddly- I- e, fiddly- I- o	Fiddly- I- e for the one- eyed Reilly	Rub a dub dub, kiss and hug	Rub a dub dub, love on
dub	Fiddly- I- e for the one- eyed Reilly	Rub a dub dub, kiss and hug	Rub a dub dub, love on	I grabbed that sea witch by the hair --
had	"Bread and salt eaten off the body... the sins of one man consumed by the other" '	A sin eater.	If Hitler had had one in the bunker, he' d be sitting on a cloud right now.	- [Scoffs]
you	Is that so?	Ladies and gentlemen... you have been judged as guilty of violations against our Almighty God... and this very day...	I assure you you will all pay for your trespasses... in blood.	- Wings.
that	Anything else, mister?	Well, I' m not from these parts, but where I come from,	I would say that that was a little rich for Iowa oil.	Take the oil, no charge.
you	Is that so?	Ladies and gentlemen... you have been judged as guilty of violations against our Almighty God... and this very day...	I assure you you will all pay for your trespasses... in blood.	- Wings.
that	On course, pilot.	You' re the pilot now.	Ooh... oh, a person could think that that was funny.	You' re supposed to be the prisoner.
later	I just have to be patient	Excuse me a sec	See you later Later	David?
shimmy	The swelling should help them fit better.	Hey, get a load of this guy.	Shimmy shimmy.	Hey, hey, hey.
kitty	Power, my boy, means never having to say you' re sorry.	Here, kitty kitty kitty.	Come here, kitty kitty.	Yes.
that	- * Will be honest and true - * He' il believe in me too	* And prize your heart of gold the way I do	* He' il know that that will be your crowning glory	* Your whole life through
that	- # Will be honest and true - # He' il believe in me too	# And prize your heart of gold the way I do	# He' il know that that will be your crowning glory	# Your whole life through
really	- ls that a shark?	It is a shark.	They' re really really mad at us.	They thought that this river was the ocean.
really	I don' t want to ruin my diet.	It' s cold in the supermarket, and you like it like that.	People always read the labels of their favourite brands really really carefully just to see how many chemicals they have, and then they just sigh and they put them in their cartanyway,	like they' re saying sure it' s bad for me, it' s bad for my family but we like it.
love	I' m black.	I want to watch Love Connection.	I love Love Connection.	I love that man on there.
love	That' s Arsenio.	So?	You love Love Connection, send your picture in there.	She did.
sigue	- No!	- Hold up, hold up.	Ryuichi Sakamoto, Sigue Sigue Sputnik, Breakbeats, Serge Gainsbourg.	- What, are you guys stealing for other people?
that	If she doesn' t want to go, she doesn' t have to	Well done!	She needed that That made me feel good	I' il sleep well tonight
boomm	I wnote a song about mmy expeniences.	# Wlen you stop at tle top of a Fennis wleel... #	I got it to Fneddy "Boomm Boomm" Cannon... tlnougl mmy fniendslip witl Dick Clank.	Dick neally wanted to lelp mme out.
heh	We could go out and get an ice cream cone.	He' s so convincing when he' s...	Heh heh... when he' s talkin 'with you... he could convince you of anything, you know?	He' s one of the very few guys...
heh	[Shoes squeak]	CHUCK:	Heh heh.	Chuck, quite frankly, these episodes are unairable.
gene	MAN:	Wloo:	That means... it' s Gene Gene, the Dancing Machine... and just in time:	[Gene' s dancing music plays]
ool	# All oven #	# Tlis land #	# Ool ool ool #	# If I lad a bell #
game	You all know Cluck Bannis... cneaton of "Tle Dating Gamme." "Tle Newlywed Gamme"...	"Tle Fammily Gamme"...	"The Game Game," "Dream Girl of 1968"...	"Operation:
you	# Tley smmile wlen tley ane low #	# Yestenday.	Tley told you you would not go fan #	# Tlat niglt you open. and tlene you ane #
heh	Mmm.	They' re so much better than last year.	Heh heh.	I mean, I' m no green thumb or anything... but... heh heh.
heh	They' re so much better than last year.	Heh heh.	I mean, I' m no green thumb or anything... but... heh heh.	Who knows?
you	479]	Said something about y' all going to the picture show.	Now, that' s the devil' s work... and who told you you could go... to the picture show, anyhow?	I mean, where you get the money, nigger?
heh	Mmm.	They' re so much better than last year.	Heh heh.	I mean, I' m no green thumb or anything... but... heh heh.
heh	They' re so much better than last year.	Heh heh.	I mean, I' m no green thumb or anything... but... heh heh.	Who knows?
you	That hoodlum nigger Jesse call up here askin 'for you.	Said something about y' all going to the picture show.	Now, that' s the devil' s work... and who told you you could go... to the picture show, anyhow?	I mean, where you get the money, nigger?
bye	Good evening, San Francisco!	## [Bye bye Love By Ray Charles playing]	# Bye bye love #	# Bye bye happiness #
bye	## [Bye bye Love By Ray Charles playing]	# Bye bye love #	# Bye bye happiness #	Ray, I got some good news for you.
bye	Ray...	Ray Charles!	# Bye bye love #	# Bye bye sweet caress #
bye	Ray Charles!	# Bye bye love #	# Bye bye sweet caress #	# Hello emptiness #
bye	# Hello emptiness #	# I think I' m gonna die # [speaking French]	# Bye bye love #	[speaking Italian]
very	I don' t know what he was thinking.	He jumped exactly when the water was receding and he hit his neck against the sand	It' s is very very sad.	God wants him to keep on living.
very	I don' t know what he was thinking.	He jumped exactly when the water was receding and he hit his neck against the sand	This is very very sad.	God wants him to keep on living.
wait	What if I told you that...	that you give me strength to live Ramon	Wait wait.	Stop this thing for a moment
bye	Hello, Saint Louis!	Good evening, San Francisco!	# Bye bye love #	# Bye bye happiness #
bye	Good evening, San Francisco!	# Bye bye love #	# Bye bye happiness #	Ray, I got some good news for you.
bye	Ray...	Ray Charles!	# Bye bye love #	# Bye bye sweet caress #
bye	Ray Charles!	# Bye bye love #	# Bye bye sweet caress #	# Hello emptiness #
bye	# Hello emptiness #	# I think I' m gonna die #	# Bye bye love #	# I think I' m gonna die #
wait	What if I told you that...	that you give me strength to live Ramon	Wait wait.	Stop this thing for a moment
knock	You said Peter was dead	Of course he' s dead You killed him	Knock knock, Mr. Cable it' s time for your MRI	What happened?
big	Based on the true story	I always wanted to be in the movies	When I was Iittle I thought for sure 1 day, I could be a big big star...	Or maybe just beautiful...
iong	And my new world	Where we think wiII be different	Yeah, I Iived that way for Iong Iong time	And my head dreaming Iike that
yeah	G Street	But you know, I may be hang out at the Moon Nite, around 5	About 2 blocks up - Yeah yeah	Maybe I' II swing by
far	I don' t know... if can forgive myself for...	I' II come back to you, I' II come back	I mean, we come back here and we go far far away	Go
big	Based on the true story	I always wanted to be in the movies	When I was Iittle I thought for sure 1 day, I could be a big big star...	Or maybe just beautiful...
iong	And my new world	Where we think wiII be different	Yeah, I Iived that way for Iong Iong time	And my head dreaming Iike that
yeah	G Street	But you know, I may be hang out at the Moon Nite, around 5	About 2 blocks up - Yeah yeah	Maybe I' II swing by
far	I don' t know... if can forgive myself for...	I' II come back to you, I' II come back	I mean, we come back here and we go far far away	Go
big	Based on the true story	I always wanted to be in the movies	When I was Iittle I thought for sure 1 day, I could be a big big star...	Or maybe just beautiful...
iong	And my new world	Where we think wiII be different	Yeah, I Iived that way for Iong Iong time	And my head dreaming Iike that
yeah	G Street	But you know, I may be hang out at the Moon Nite, around 5	About 2 blocks up - Yeah yeah	Maybe I' II swing by
far	I don' t know... if can forgive myself for...	I' II come back to you, I' II come back	I mean, we come back here and we go far far away	Go
yum	They' re out of sight.	I' m into comics myself.	Big Yum Yum Book.	I' d never seen anything like it.
yum	I' m into comics myself.	So Crumb showed me this comic book novel he was working on.	Big Yum Yum Book.	I' d never seen anything like it.
than	This section here you might find less amusing, Superintendent.	I give fair warning to all those who have reason to fear me... not to attempt to reside in Victoria.	Neglect this {Y: i} and abide by the consequences... which shall be worse {Y: i} than than the rust in the wheat.	I do not wish to give this order full force without timely warning... but I am a widow' s son outlawed... and my orders must be obeyed.
had	Good night, "signore".	At that moment I knew, beyond any doubt...... he' d had her.	The creature had had my darling girl.	It was incomprehensible!
had	Will you get some water, please?	At that moment I knew...... he' d had her.	The creature had had my darling girl.	It was incomprehensible!
you	I can' t afford a star, so what are we even talkin 'about?.	All right.	What if I told you you could have a star for $1, 000?.	Who?.
you	Couples, naked, race down by its quiet side.	And we laugh like soft, mad children... smug in the woolly, cotton brains of infancy.	Every time I try to make love to you you run around with your mouth stuck out	Choose, they croon, the ancient ones.
that	I thought he might like to see some English and American magazines	I have just received them	I know that you know... that I know that you know... that that is a dialogue between Confucious... and Chuang- Tsu	"Concerning respect, Your Majesty"
you	About this whistle- blower, did Mike and Don go along with the corporate decision?	- Lowell?	- Did I tell you you were wrong?	No.
that	We were put on this train and sent to Brinnlitz.	But I was never certain.	I was always in doubt that that actually was going to happen.	And as we arrived in Brinnlitz, we walked out of the boxcars.
you	- And you' ve been here all this time?	- Ever since July.	Did Mr. Kraler warn you you won' t get much to eat here?	You can imagine.
that	- Margot, I won' t even -- - Listen, you' ve found a companionship...... and I want you to enjoy it.	Only, in my heart, I feel I' ve got a right to share feelings with someone too.	But I' m sure that Peter, that that boy, he could never be that person for me.	[KNOCKlNG]
back	Yeah I er, I went for a run.	You smell like you ran far.	Well I showered, I mean I guess I didn' t cool, I wanted to get back back down here and check on you, it was a Tour de Stad.	What?
you	And I won' t wipe out my liver in two more weeks?	I would think it would be unlikely.	I don' t want to tell you you wouldn' t.	My advice to you is to stop doing what you' re doing, because it' s hurting you.
that	- Yeah.	- I don' t know.	So, do they think that once you change your habits that that' s going to correct itself.	They think that everything should get back on track once this is done.
those	And who authorized it?	Try to imagine what those poor bastards were feeling when they jumped outta that building to their death.	Those those those young guys and cops ran into that building, never asked a question, and they' re dead.	And their families¡ ¯ lives are ruined.
very	W at that time was just starting out in the world as a business man.	Because he' s a guy who¡ ¯s always tried to emulate his father, uh, he decided to go into the oil business.	He founded an oil company, a drilling company, out of west Texas called Arbusto, which was very very good at drilling dry holes that nothing came out of.	But the question has always been where did this money come from?
yeah	That' s fine.	Just wanted to get some information on what was going on.	Yeah yeah yeah,	I didn' t realize the Secret Service guards foreign embassies.
very	It' s like training a dog; ya tell him to sit down or ya tell him to roll over at the same time, the dog doesn' t know what to do.	Well the American people are being treated like that.	It was really very very skillfully and, and ugly in what they did.	We must stop the terror.
very	That' s the case, for example with Microsoft.	So no wonder the support is so bad.	The benefits of Free Software were tremendous but the cost of supporting it internally uh, and made managers very very nervous and so the fundamental idea I had was if we can build a model that could deliver two to four times the support and uh, and uh, and hand holding capability that an internal engineer could provide.	And we could do it at 1/ 2 to 1/ 4 of the cost that would meet the test of whether or not people would actually buy.
that	I mean, when you want to go out and build.. go out to build a server farm	It was much more cost effective cost effective real dollar returns to build it on Linux and Apache than was to build it on IlS and NT even if it meant that you have to spend a little bit of money to train your staff to learn how to use that or to find people who were knowledgeable.	But the good news was that that knowledge wasn' t very expensive because there were all those college students out there who' d been using Linux for a long time and were very familiar with it.	If you look at the trend curves in web servers
that	That freedom to cooperate with other people, freedom to have a community... is important for our quality of life.	It' s important for having a good society that we can live in.	And that that is in my view, even more important than having powerful and reliable software.	But I think some of the people in the Free Software camp... are a little scared by the commercialization.
and	And then the only other part of the Open Source definition is a list of licenses that were accepted	And the ones that we started with were the GPL which was actually the example for a lot of what' s in the Open Source definition in the BSD license because software for BSD system pre- existed Linux	I think the next moment that I thought was really pivotal was when the database vendors flipped over which happened about three months sooner than I expected to and actually happened in late July early August commitments to do one ports from Oracle and and Sybase and the other key database vendors.	[And why was that critical?] because we knew that in order for the open source story to be credible and especially in order for the Linux story to be credible, we' d have to get commitments from independent software vendors to do ports of their applications to these platforms and I was actually kind of worried
city	Right and so we had maps there and we handed them off everybody who was coming.	Well, we actually met at a Denny' s That' s just outside the Foster City limits...	Foster City city limits, which meant also just outside of Foster City Police jurisdiction, which meant any, any incidents that happened at the meeting point happened in the jurisdiction of San Mateo, and if they told us they get lost, we' d say, "Fine, we are going to Foster city.	Bye. "
very	If you don' t share, you get thrown in jail or killed.	In 1990, we got a visit from a director of an institute in uh, Moscow University, and actually I saw him in Helsinki just 2 weeks ago, but in any event, he came by, and Richard Stallman had suggested that he visit Cygnus, because he was interested in and understanding how the Free Software model... might apply to stimulating entrepreneurial innovation in Russia of all places, and we had been kind of secretive about our business plan, because you know, we were' nt really sure it' s gonna work, we didn' t want to look too stupid if it failed.	But I was very very open with him.	The more I told him, the more he started to shake his head like this, and I finally said, you know, "What' s wrong?"
the	We knew, a number of expeditions had failed on it.	If no one had tried, it wouldn' t be quite the same.	It was the the fact that people had tried and failed, so we knew it was hard.	And my feeling was, "Well, we' il just do it.
very	That' s the purest style and that' s the style that Joe and I had climbed Siula Grande.	It' s a very committing way of climbing, because you have no line of retreat.	If something goes wrong, it can be very very serious.	There' s no rescue, there' s no helicopter rescue and there' s no other people.
very	And to put an element of risk back into it takes us out of the humdrum.	In that sense, it makes you feel more alive.	I' ve never been that high before, and it' s very very strenuous to climb ice like that.	Not only is it technically difficult and unstable and frightening, but your heart is going like crazy because of the altitude.
very	And I' d be looking and trying to push the thing in, and using my teeth, and getting it round, and getting it round.	My hands were cold, my feet were...	I was very very cold.	It was a desperate position, made worse by the fact that that I had no idea what Joe was doing, or what position he was in.
that	My hands were cold, my feet were...	I was very very cold.	It was a desperate position, made worse by the fact that that I had no idea what Joe was doing, or what position he was in.	I just couldn' t figure out why it was taking him so long to get his weight off the rope, there was no sensible explanation for it.
very	I was pretty surprised to be alive.	The head torch beam just went down, and down, and down, and the darkness just ate it, just gone.	I felt very unnerved, very very vulnerable.	If I had landed less than 1m further to the right,
was	I had a pleased feeling, that it meant that Simon was alive.	Simon!	Looking where I was was an awful prospect.	You don' t die of a broken leg.
very	I started to go down the glacier on my own.	In this stage I was still certain that I was gonna die myself.	Crossing a glacier is very very dangerous on your own, because there are crevices in the ice, and the snow covers them.	Fortunately I managed to find a faint outline of our tracks, from when we walked in.
that	Don' t say anything stupid!	You fought, didn' t you!	It seems that that is all I can do for my country...	You went to battle of your own free will.
that	And we' re going to conduct an interview with arnold friedman, my father.	I still feel like i knew my father very well.	I don' t think that just because there were things in his life that were private and secret and shameful that that means that the father who i knew and the things i knew about him were in any way not real.	They' re gonna put me in the movies they' re gonna make a big star out of me we' il make a film about a man that' s sad and ionely and all i got to do is act naturally well, i' il bet you i' m a- gonna be a big star might win an oscar, you can' t never tell the movies gonna make me a big star
well	I don' t think that just because there were things in his life that were private and secret and shameful that that means that the father who i knew and the things i knew about him were in any way not real.	They' re gonna put me in the movies they' re gonna make a big star out of me we' il make a film about a man that' s sad and ionely and all i got to do is act naturally well, i' il bet you i' m a- gonna be a big star might win an oscar, you can' t never tell the movies gonna make me a big star	'cause i can play the part so well well, i hope you come to see me in the movies then i know that you will plainly see the biggest fool that' s ever hit the big time and all i got to do is act naturally	arnold liked pictures.
the	David, being the oldest had a lot of responsibilify when he was young.	Seth was an outright rebel.	And somehow, jesse was just like the the one that keeps trying to catch up and doesn' t quite make it.	I have very good memories of the, of my, well, i have very good memories of my childhood.
had	I' m an asshole. "	They' re harassing my father for no reason at all.	If i had had some kind of arabian sand scarf i would have wrapped that around my face and been lawrence of arabia.	Maybe that would have been better.
attack	I never felt angry at my dad.	My dad had nothing to do with this.	Someone knocks on the door and accuses you for a crime you didn' t commit you gotta attack attack your attackers and do what you can.	And that' s all it was.
had	He was telling me that the only reason he pled guilty and went to jail was because he wanted to save his son, jesse.	He told me that he was a pedophile.	He told me that he had had activity with boys but not in great neck.	He told me that he had a house in wading river a beach resort and that the family enjoyed vacations there.
that	It was more of them telling him what happened and that when they didn' t like what he said they kept repeating to him that they know what happened and that he should tell.	I believe that i remember saying that i saw jesse, like chase after a kid or hit a kid or something like that and that' s what i testified to to the grand jury.	And i remember saying that because i felt and i feel like when i said that that ended the questioning.	And so that might have meant that you could infer maybe that they were asking me a lot of questions, trying to get something and i just wanted to give them something.
fuck	Jesse' s gonna go to jail for the rest of his life.	Seth is gonna move west.	Fuck fuck.	I received a telephone call from jesse asking to see me and jesse told me that he wanted to plead guilty.
that	Worf and I went up, and I pushed him, he pushed me back.	We started wrestling.	And it' s understood that that is part of the Klingon culture.	The female pushing a man or slapping a man is considered like,
that	I' m fairly dictatorial with him and with the other guys as well.	Him, though, I tend to be even more guarded with.	Because there' s a line, a very thin line that that character has to walk.	Because he could be potentially very offensive...... but for some reason winds up being very sweet.
bent	I can' t... it' s bent.	It' s meant to be bent.	I know that but this one' s bent bent.	It' s bloody cold in here.
run	# FLANAGAN & ALLEN:	Run Rabbit Run	# Run run run	# Run rabbit run rabbit Run run run
run	Run Rabbit Run	# Run run run	# Run rabbit run rabbit Run run run	Shall we go back and kill him?
run	Cuthbertson! >	Sorry, Sergeant.	# So run rabbit Run run run. #	You don' t have to tell me if you don' t want to.
that	Can I help?	Computer' s got no information on our mystery man.	I' m starting to think that that Zimmer conned us.	Here' s your problem.
would	Dana Dane, and Doug E. Fresh battle in the Bronx was the day I truly met hip- hop.	Little did I know a year later	Ricky D would would join the Get Fresh Crew and record the hip- hop classic The Show, and of course the b- side La Di Da Di.	Dana Dane would drop a couple years later with his classic Cinderfella.
you	You' re turning into a Terry McMillian character.	Don' t say that, that' s cold!	I' m telling you you' re in trouble.	Oh, it' s just I never seem to find anyone on the same page with me.
tin	Ren, Stimpy.	Stimpy?	Rin Tin Tin.	Dre:
tin	Rin Tin Tin.	Dre:	Rin Tin Tin...	Rin...
mmm	To hip- hop.	# Time after time #	# Mmm mmm... #	# Mmm mmm... #
mmm	# Time after time #	# Mmm mmm... #	# Mmm mmm... #	Wait.
you	Still thinking about Sidney, huh?	Yeah, man.	I told you you was a punk.	Who you callin 'punk?
sing	Dr. Sobel, you received a call this morning from Paul Vitti.	Why would you say that I got a call from Paul Vitti?	Because we monitor all his phone calls from Sing Sing.	Then, yes, I did.
sing	Okay...	Based on his symptoms and his test results, I would call it brief psychotic disorder...... and if it persists, schizophreniform disorder.	And Dr. Kassam, the psychiatrist at Sing Sing, concurs with the diagnosis.	So he' s crazy.
sing	That' s what I wanted.	You told me I can' t.	You said it' s either here or Sing Sing.	I' m not trying to punish you, but I do have some responsibilities.
sing	I mean, what' s next?	Do you go on the run for the rest of your life?	Do you just go back to Sing Sing?	Or maybe they find you dead in an alley?
you	Cold.	Ted, my main man you really stepped in it this time.	We tried to tell you you didn' t belong here.	I don' t speak dog.
you	Lookin 'good.	How' s the family? "	You expect me to tell you you look good?	Did they run out of soap down at the Piggly Wiggly since I left?
that	Well, then... allow me to remind you.	[Door slams]	"Born into one of the wealthiest families of Greenville, Alabama, her daddy' s in cotton and all that that implies."	There' s no listing for an Earl Carmichael in Greenville.
you	Lookin 'good.	How' s the family? "	You expect me to tell you you look good?	Did they run out of soap down at the Piggly Wiggly since I left?
that	Well, then... allow me to remind you.	[Door slams]	"Born into one of the wealthiest families of Greenville, Alabama, her daddy' s in cotton and all that that implies."	There' s no listing for an Earl Carmichael in Greenville.
that	- A Harry Winston wreath?	- Morning.	lsn' t that that maid?	I mean, where would a maid get that necklace?
ling	"Now!"	Because they' re not happy.	Even the poor animals like Ling Ling the Panda, she must mate, so you can build a wing on the Zoo.	They go to China, they anesthesize a Panda, which is kinda redundant...
ling	When his Chinese name was Who Shu Ko Hu,	Bear with Balls of Steel.	They put him in a cage with Ling Ling, saying:	"Go, mate!"
you	That boy' s got the spirit!	He' s an idiot!	Has a member of the opposite sex ever told you you' re not her type?	Let me hear you shout amen...... if you ever had duct tape ripped off your naked buttocks!
heh	But southern sisters, we don' t casually date.	We have boyfriends.	Eh -- heh heh!	Ooh.
heh	Get on the bus.	You want to play some real musi c... give me a call.	Heh heh!	Oh, so... now you have musi c in your program.
kappa	You are now men of distin ction.	I don' t see Ernest.	Gentlemen of servi ce... sons of s cholarship... it is my pleasure to wel come you... to the Lambda Mu chapter of kappa kappa...	National honorary band fraternity in corporated.
that	- I get shot down.	- You didn' t get shot down, honey.	I know that that' s a risky choice, but it' s an inspired choice.	I think you' re trying to help him because you feel guilty.
you	I' m not just your girlfriend.	I' m good.	Remember all those times I told you you should take acting lessons?	I' m a natural.
you	(Women giggle and laugh)	(Music stops)	I told you you could do it.	Ladies, I have an announcement.
hip	Men!	We' re seaworthy again.	Hip hip hip...	- Hurrah.
hip	Hip hip hip...	- Hurrah.	Hip hip hip...	- Hurrah.
hip	Watch out!	By Toutatis, I know he fell...... in a cauldron of magic potion...... but he' il never cease to amaze me.	Hip hip hip... hurrah...	- Stop it.
you	It looks great. Let' s go.	Why are you still here?	I told you you have to leave.	Yes, i heard you, but I' m waiting for you.
came	I' m from the biomedical labs here on Campus.	I understand you treated a friend of mine, yesterday.	She came came with someone named Max Flemming.	Oh, a tall girl, good looking, no insurance?
katie	- You guys go that way.	- Okay.	Hey, Katie Katie Katie.	Where you are, Kate?
that	Why can' t you just close your eyes and concentrate on the feeling?	It' s not the most flattering activity for a woman.	I' m not sure that that' s a -- Maybe we can help.	Nick, jump in here.
sing	Dr. Sobel, you received a call this morning from Paul Vitti.	Why would you say that I got a call from Paul Vitti?	Because we monitor all his phone calls from Sing Sing.	Then, yes, I did.
sing	Okay...	Based on his symptoms and his test results, I would call it brief psychotic disorder...... and if it persists, schizophreniform disorder.	And Dr. Kassam, the psychiatrist at Sing Sing, concurs with the diagnosis.	- So he' s crazy.
sing	That' s what I wanted.	You told me I can' t.	You said it' s either here or Sing Sing.	I' m not trying to punish you, but I do have some responsibilities.
sing	I mean, what' s next?	Do you go on the run for the rest of your life?	Do you just go back to Sing Sing?	Or maybe they find you dead in an alley?
you	She brought it on herself with that Apache dance.	Heres your hot chocolate, just like you likes it.	Who told you you could walk your black Louisiana ass into our dining room?	You got ears, nigger?
really	Whenever I get a good idea, I write it down in my diary before it goes out of my head.	And you know what occurred to me?	The other day... that... all the really really knock- out acts have something a little different going on, you know?	Like, a signature band.
maybe	And I thought my thing could be.. "aloof"... you know?	Give them just enough to get them good and hungry but always leave them wanting more.	Once I get a name for myself, maybe maybe we can open up a club of our own, you know?	You could run it, and I could be the headliner.
omega	I certainly hope so, Mr. Wilder.	I come to you in desperation.	I' m Panos Patakos, president of the Lambda Omega Omega fraternity.	I' m sure you' re aware of our... stigma.
omega	- Okay.	Where the hell is everyone?	Mad props for this pimpin 'good time... go out to those hung and handsome bad boys... of Lambda Omega Omega.	Thanks for the good time, fellas.
happy	Yes, I understand it was a funeral.	I guess I goofed up.	I can see how a happy happy- birthday basket...... might seem ironic and cruel, but it was an honest mistake.	It' s not that easy running a small- sized business out of a house...... especially this house!
hey	Hello.	Hello	- So -- Wait Hey Hey - What?	You' re such a rogue.
that	Here!	Here!	That That' s mine!	Hey, he' s a baby!
hope	Your son is a born leader.	Those people out there are following him because they believe in him.	They believe he can give them hope hope of a new life, a new world, a better future!	Who' s that?
this	- Not, in reality not.	- At least, not for now.	- Already this this.	- AND welcome to Paris.
that	It asked me if you believe That remain a lot of time.	It said, that not.	¿But do not you believe that that Strange it be going to sing?	We maintain the fingers crusaders...... So that remain 5 minutes.
that	Oh, if, baby.	If!	¡Care! - ¿That? - ¿That that?	¿Because parecias so nervous today?
that	- Well, that' s pretty much it.	I mean, the letters kept pouring in and I began to believe.	To believe that I could really help people and that that was more rewarding than any con that I could pull.	And then I found, this is the really bizarre thing, the less I tried to take advantage of people, the more I got back.
this	- He loves you.	- I love you.	- Yo, forget this this, man.	- [Chuckling]
you	Why' re you acting like you wanna do something?	You know and I know you don' t.	Didn' t I tell you you' re gonna get your shot?	Huh?
that	I know who that is.	Is that the --?	Is that that guy from Price ls Right?	Oh, damn!
very	So it' s back,,, Whoa,,,	Harder than it looks, isn' t it, gentlemen?	Well, you' ve all done very very well for your first lesson,	And before you leave tonight,
that	I know who that is.	Is that the --?	Is that that guy from Price ls Right?	Oh, damn!
very	Whoa...	Harder than it looks, isn' t it, gentlemen?	Well, you' ve all done very very well for your first lesson.	And before you leave tonight,
temptation	- Ooh, give me a breakdown - Temptation	- Because it' s time for a showdown - Temptation	Temptation, Temptation Temptation	Oh, oh- oh- oh
that	What can you say?	Well, Begbie had a phrase for it.	It was fucking obvious that that cunt was going to fuck some cunt.	Well, I hope you learned your lesson, son.
digi	So find the feelin '	So find the feelin '	Bom Digi Digi Digi Bom Digi Bom	Lifestyle Letting Agency.
ling	You know you' re bothering 2 great swordsmen to have their duel?	Who are you?	Secret Agent Ling Ling Fat	I' m responsible to protect His Majesty and his properties
ling	So powerful!	Members of the Secret Agent	Ling Ling Kung	Ling Ling Hei
ling	Members of the Secret Agent	Ling Ling Kung	Ling Ling Hei	Ling Ling Fat
ling	Ling Ling Kung	Ling Ling Hei	Ling Ling Fat	Ling Ling Choi
ling	Ling Ling Hei	Ling Ling Fat	Ling Ling Choi	We' il be your Majesty' s loyal servants forever
ling	Your Majesty, I' ve not given my subordinates good guidance	I' d be blamed!	Ling Ling Fat, behave yourself	I' ve got a way to defeat your lron Clothe
ling	Conspiracy?	Your Majesty	I, Ling Ling Fat will protect you	My sword is sucked away, so powerful
ling	But I can' t help loving you	Forget about him!	Ling Ling Fat!	Luckily you have come on time
ling	I don' t know what will happen!	You...	Ling Ling Fat, your family will have capital punishment, you know?	Your Majesty, I...
many	And I have to thank my husband	He gave me chance to act	We had rehearsed many many times	So, this award is yours too
ling	Get lost	Be careful!	Ling Ling Fat you killed my wife and my son	Even I can' t kill your family
very	Whoa...	Harder than it looks, isn' t it, gentlemen?	Well, you' ve all done very very well for your first lesson,	And before you leave tonight,
you	- Well, I' il go, then.	- lf he goes, you go with him.	Didn' t I just tell you you can' t go through a winter alone here?	You ever see such a stubborn woman?
crud	- And oozin 'with mud - Mud is just fine	- It' s drownin 'in bog - Bog is good luck	And crawlin 'with crud Crud' s a good sign	The poor, they got hope The rich can buy soap
gold	What can stop that itchin '	Ain' t around the kitchen	Gold, gold Gold, gold	Gold
you	Thank you.	All right.	We' il tell you you' re the best after you tell us how you did it.	how can I refuse a dying man' s Iast request?
circus	In fucking Vegas!	Not on no side street, the motherfucker got shot on the Strip!	In front of Circus Circus!	Damn.
that	Think here.	Think about what you' re doing, because if you' re not careful, you could end up like him.	I guess that that would be okay.	All right.
ling	I left the home when I was 18	I saw Uncle Longlegs finally	Ling Ling, do you want curry?	Go to work
bang	Harry Potter has his magic broom	Yoiji has the creation of a lifetime	Bang bang bang!	A robot arm!
that	- Fuck you!	- Fuck you, nubbie!	Well, now that that matter is settled, why don' t we synchronize our watches before Gawain reports to work,	In 20 seconds, it will be exactly 12: 16,
ray	Ooh!	Hello, ma' am.	My name is Ray Ray and I' m here to... service you.	I' m Sylvia, and I hit my head.
ray	Sex addicts are everywhere, Sylvia, and pretty soon, Harford Road will be ours.	Oh, hey, hold on.	Ray Ray is a sexual healer.	Come visit us, Sylvia.
ray	Taxi!	Taxi!	Ray Ray' s service center, 6630 Harford Road.	Yes, ma' am.
ray	What is she talking about, that bitch?	Hello?	Ray Ray?	It' s me, Sylvia.
paw	It' s nice to meet you, Loose Linda.	Until you' ve hit your head, you can never really feel the power you get from sex.	My name is Paw Paw.	I' m on "bush patrol."
ray	Dirt worship' s been around long before my accident.	I just didn' t know.	Ray Ray has helped me understand my hypersexuality.	And he cured me of my herpes.
ray	As you grow to embrace your concussion, you' il learn to accept anything sexual as long as it' s safe, consensual and doesn' t harm others.	You wanna powder my chafed butt?	Uh, I would, but I' m supposed to help Ray Ray think up a new sex act.	Maybe later.
ray	I can...	I know you are and we' re gonna do something about that.	Ray Ray is a sex saint,	- and he' s got powers.
ray	- Amen to that.	I' ve got a hard- on of gold, and my tongue is on fire.	Oh, and I' ve got hot pants, Ray Ray.	We' re all in heat.
ray	Thank you for asking.	Oh, my God!	You have met Ray Ray.	Oh, Mother!
ray	I' m supposed to help them.	It will pass, Sylvia.	No, there' s this guy named Ray Ray and he is their leader and he ate me out.	Ugh!
ray	Fucking tranquilizers.	It' s all right.	Ray Ray is gonna be all better, right?	You betrayed me.
ray	Get out.	This is a Neuter establishment.	We don' t serve Ray Ray' s people here.	Don' t get a breast reduction, Ursula.
ray	There is somebody for everybody.	- That means you!	- Ray Ray!	Straight, gay or bi, there' s a new sex act just waiting for you.
ray	Ooh- oh!	The big "O."	Do it for us one more time, Ray Ray.	Now, Ray Ray, now!
ray	The big "O."	Do it for us one more time, Ray Ray.	Now, Ray Ray, now!	Now!
walterl	And why...?	Why...?	Walterl Walterl And why did everyone just automatically listen to that Mike person?	And why, why was everyone just standing there?
that	To Sergeant Rose.	Stu Wolff.	Right, well, now that that' s settled, would anyone like to come to a party with me?	I would.
anything	Julie, focus.	What do you want more than anything in this world?	Anything anything?	Ultimate anything.
peter	Peter.	Peter Colt.	Nice to meet you, Peter Peter Colt.	- Five quid says you can' t do it again.
peter	Peter.	Peter Colt.	"The" Peter Peter Colt?	- The one and only.
peter	- That' s an excellent question.	That sad fact of the matter is, I can' t seem to get through 24 hours without you.	I missed you, Peter Peter Colt.	You have?
plan	I don' t -- I don' t have a plan.	Yes, you do!	You' re on the non- plan plan.	I am not on a non- plan plan!
plan	Yes, you do!	You' re on the non- plan plan.	I am not on a non- plan plan!	You are too!
you	Thank you.	All right.	We' il tell you you' re the best after you tell us how you did it.	How can I refuse a dying man' s last request?
very	Yeah... I was that good, as a child	So if you could stick around for a minute...	I' m pretty sure you could make the Iadies very very happy 1 slice of cake for her...	I can do that...
you	Wait...	What the hell are you doing in here?	You know that' s the problem to you you talk too much	A woman Iike that she wants a man Iikes action
you	I don' t know why you have developed this inability to admit when you' re attracted to someone.	It' s not healthy and you know it.	And one day, I promise you you will wake up with a wedding ring on your finger and you will be the happiest person in the world to be married.	I am not attracted to him.
you	- Hello.	What are you both doing here, anyway?	I came to tell you you' re not legally allowed to be here.	Yeah, but we are.
boing	I' m Suh Boeun.	Boing, boing, Boeun.	She goes boing boing every morning!	Jisoo, know what she did to me on our honeymoon?
garth	- we put the $1 0, 000 donors up here.	- Wow, Garth.	Was that Garth Garth, or Chris Garth?	- That' s classic Garth.
doo	You are on.	- I' m on right now?	I don' t believe you. - § Doo doo doo. § - Ron!	Oh, come on.
christmas	I' ve hoped you would say that.	[Drew]	I got you a little pre- Christmas Christmas gift.	[Missy]
you	- Oh, my God.	- Oh, God.	I told you you' d have fun with me.	[sneezes]
alone	You' ve never been alone.	On Christmas, it' s not like being alone.	It' s alone alone.	This wouldn' t be one of those lucid moments.
well	But Hondinen Schweiz, who can' t register, took apart herself to persuade Handy Harrison	Are you nominating Handy Harrison, who owns a hardware store, doing something with construction with my home, I believe.	Can run for Mayor as well well, OK then, you got your Mayor, You want it happened.	Oh, Mr president, things are more complicated than that.
finances	Grace. He is the eagle	Eagle Cole has never run away from anything in his life.	Now imagine what we' il do with finances finances	Book deals, quarter board, library fund raising, you quit, you quit, got help us lose to promote we can' t keep so still and say goodbye fast you can see a road- roller.
haw	It looks like Sally is going to catch her bell in favour of the president.	I' m Christi, TBNN News	Haw haw... you baby, you going down!	So, what do you think?
urt	I like 3 ¡3 isn' t healthy	What' s yielding you Yielding me?	Yes, somehow you seem Urt Urt, Really?	- Really
hello	Hi, Paggi, can I get a cup of coffee	Sure	Hello Hello	Here, dear Thanks
what	Sir, Let' s not panic, this isn' t over Wait a minute, wait minute.	What' s wrong with us?	What What?	I' il give it to him It' s that simple
sally	It' s brilliant, sir	Thank you and I get the girl.	Sally Sally, right	Sally, hey, hi, I' m here
bling	No!	No one have baby here!	Grandpa Bling Bling doctor in China.	Grandpa?
sing	Grandma Fung- Yu.	Yeah.	And Sing Sing, XiXi' s mother.	All right.
sing	And XiXi' s mama, sexy thing.	- Oh.	- Sing Sing.	Yeah.
bling	- Sing Sing.	Yeah.	And Bling Bling, the grandpa.	- All right.
thing	- Grandma Egg Foo Yong?	Fung- Yu, dawg.	Sexy thing, Miss Thing Thing.	Sing Sing!
sing	Fung- Yu, dawg.	Sexy thing, Miss Thing Thing.	Sing Sing!	[Muttering in Chinese]
bling	Sing Sing!	[Muttering in Chinese]	- Bling Bling.	- Yeah.
bang	- Yeah.	- Ta- dow.	- Bang bang.	And over in the corner is the hardest- working man in the organization.
sing	Grandma Kung Fu.	Sexy Thing.	Sing Sing.	Sing Sing.
sing	Sexy Thing.	Sing Sing.	Sing Sing.	- Bling Bling.
bling	Sing Sing.	Sing Sing.	- Bling Bling.	Ta- dow.
bang	- Bling Bling.	Ta- dow.	- Bang bang.	And little Ding- A- Ling.
sing	- All right.	Let' s eat.	Sing Sing, these Peking duck feet is the shit!	You no like my cooking?
sing	"The shit" is good?	Yes.	"The shit" is real good, Sing Sing.	You know, this is the first time in two years
you	Ooh, brother gotta pee.	Oh!	Anybody ever tell you you have beautiful hair?	Come on, let' s get busy.
you	Dominic.	What are you doing here?	I just want to tell you you' re right.	Being a parent means being there every day.
you	I need to work on being alone.	Or not.	Anyone ever tell you you' re a hell of a kisser?	- Yeah.
gus	Just so you know, that' s incredibly hot.	Oh, I' m sorry.	Oh, hi, Gus Gus.	Gus Gus.
gus	Oh, I' m sorry.	Oh, hi, Gus Gus.	Gus Gus.	So much of you they had to name you twice.
gus	You know what?	I' m tired of living my life just in theory.	- I think I' m gonna go talk to Gus Gus.	- Oh, come on.
gunther	You can' t seriously be attracted to that walking...... Alp.	I don' t know.	I can see myself in the mountains, raising children...... little Hans Hans and Gunther Gunther.	Anna, don' t.
gus	Okay, all right.	Because...... I' m jealous as hell.	I' d hate to see you with Gus Gus.	I' d hate to see you with another man.
chi	I' d rather be lucky than good.	So, Mr. President, what are you gonna do next?	Oh, so many offers, Chi Chi.	It' s an embarrassment of riches.
that	Why?	What would you say if I told you that notebook you read every day...... used to have a lot of stuff about me in it?	I would say that that makes a lot of sense.	You erased me from your memories...... because you thought you were holding me back from having...... a full and happy life.
plan	I don' t have a plan.	Yes, you do!	You' re on the non- plan plan.	I am not on a non- plan plan!
plan	Yes, you do!	You' re on the non- plan plan.	I am not on a non- plan plan!	You are too!
bright	Actually...	L think I did.	 ~ Gonna be a bright Bright sunshiny day	Whoo! ~ Gonna be a bright Bright sunshiny day
bright	L think I did.	[Tim] ~ Gonna be a bright Bright sunshiny day	Whoo! ~ Gonna be a bright Bright sunshiny day	- Timmy!
well	But Hondinen Schweiz, who can' t register, took apart herself to persuade Handy Harrison	Are you nominating Handy Harrison, who owns a hardware store, doing something with construction with my home, I believe.	Can run for Mayor as well well, OK then, you got your Mayor, You want it happened.	Oh, Mr president, things are more complicated than that.
finances	Grace. He is the eagle	Eagle Cole has never run away from anything in his life.	Now imagine what we' il do with finances finances	Book deals, quarter board, library fund raising, you quit, you quit, got help us lose to promote we can' t keep so still and say goodbye fast you can see a road- roller.
campagin	Don' t get up.	Handy£¬get the hell out of here	Sally, I have to run a campagin Campagin£¿ You make a fool yourself.	Wow, welcome to politics discreetly£¬discreetly
haw	It looks like Sally is going to catch her bell in favour of the president.	I' m Christi£¬TBNN News	Haw haw... you baby, you going down!	So£¬what do you think?
urt	I like 3£ ¡3 isn' t healthy	What' s yielding you£ ¿Yielding me?	Yes, somehow you seem Urt Urt£¬Really?	- Really
hello	Hi, Paggi, can I get a cup of coffee	Sure	Hello Hello	Here, dear Thanks
sally	It' s brilliant, sir	Thank you and I get the girl.	Sally Sally£¬right	Sally£¬hey, hi, I' m here
that	Why?	What would you say if I told you that notebook you read every day...... used to have a lot of stuff about me in it?	I would say that that makes a lot of sense.	You erased me from your memories...... because you thought you were holding me back from having...... a full and happy life.
two	It' s not that much here.	But in Ethiopia five pounds could feed a family for a week.	And if you all gave me two two pences, then we' d have a tenner.	And that' s enough to provide that village with a source of clean water forever.
that	A thousand!	What did you bring a thousand to school for?	Can' t you see that that' s suspicious?	It' s not suspicious.
fifty	York...	- Why don' t you go on it, you' d be great, wouldn' t he, he' d be great.	Fifty fifty please.	It' s York!
pum	Let' s follow it.	# Come, they told me, # par um pa pa pa pum	# A new born King to see, # par um pa pum pum	No, Saint Maureen.
pom	Here he is.	He' s always got those bags with him.	Pom pom pom...	Do you remember me?
you	I don' t know why you have developed this inability to admit when you' re attracted to someone.	It' s not healthy and you know it.	And one day, I promise you you will wake up with a wedding ring on your finger and you will be the happiest person in the world to be married.	I am not attracted to him.
you	- Hello.	What are you both doing here, anyway?	I came to tell you you' re not legally allowed to be here.	Yeah, but we are.
peter	Peter.	Peter Colt.	Nice to meet you, Peter Peter Colt.	- Five quid says you can' t do it again.
peter	Peter.	Peter Colt.	"The" Peter Peter Colt?	- The one and only.
peter	- That' s an excellent question.	That sad fact of the matter is, I can' t seem to get through 24 hours without you.	I missed you, Peter Peter Colt.	You have?
that	- Fuck you.	- Fuck you; - Fuck you, nubbie;	Well, now that that matter is settled, why don' t we synchronize our watches before Gawain reports to work.	In 20 seconds, it will be exactly 12: 16.
that	Think here.	Think about what you 're doing, because if you' re not careful, you could end up like him.	I guess that that would be okay.	All right.
chltty	Yes.	I' d like to report a robbery.	AVN BEST PlCTURE 1999 "CHlTTY CHlTTY GANG BANG"	HUGO POSH PRODUCER
that	- Fuck you!	- Fuck you, nubbie!	Well, now that that matter is settled, why don' t we synchronize our watches before Gawain reports to work,	In 20 seconds, it will be exactly 12: 16,
gus	Just so you know, that' s incredibly hot.	Oh, I' m sorry.	Oh, hi, Gus Gus.	Gus Gus.
gus	Oh, I' m sorry.	Oh, hi, Gus Gus.	Gus Gus.	So much of you they had to name you twice.
gus	You know what?	L' m tired of living my life just in theory.	- I think I' m gonna go talk to Gus Gus.	- Oh, come on.
gunther	You can' t seriously be attracted to that walking...... Alp.	L don' t know.	L can see myself in the mountains, raising children...... little Hans Hans and Gunther Gunther.	Anna, don' t.
gus	Okay, all right.	Because...... l' m jealous as hell.	L' d hate to see you with Gus Gus.	L' d hate to see you with another man.
bling	No!	No one have baby here!	Grandpa Bling Bling doctor in China.	Grandpa?
sing	Grandma Fung- Yu.	Yeah.	And Sing Sing, XiXi' s mother.	All right.
sing	And XiXi' s mama, sexy thing.	- Oh.	- Sing Sing.	Yeah.
bling	- Sing Sing.	Yeah.	And Bling Bling, the grandpa.	- All right.
thing	- Grandma Egg Foo Yong?	Fung- Yu, dawg.	Sexy thing, Miss Thing Thing.	Sing Sing!
sing	Fung- Yu, dawg.	Sexy thing, Miss Thing Thing.	Sing Sing!	- Bling Bling.
bling	Sexy thing, Miss Thing Thing.	Sing Sing!	- Bling Bling.	- Yeah.
bang	- Yeah.	- Ta- dow.	- Bang bang.	And over in the corner is the hardest- working man in the organization.
sing	Grandma Kung Fu.	Sexy Thing.	Sing Sing.	Sing Sing.
sing	Sexy Thing.	Sing Sing.	Sing Sing.	- Bling Bling.
bling	Sing Sing.	Sing Sing.	- Bling Bling.	Ta- dow.
bang	- Bling Bling.	Ta- dow.	- Bang bang.	And little Ding- A- Ling.
sing	- All right.	Let' s eat.	Sing Sing, these Peking duck feet is the shit!	You no like my cooking?
sing	"The shit" is good?	Yes.	"The shit" is real good, Sing Sing.	You know, this is the first time in two years
you	Ooh, brother gotta pee.	Oh!	Anybody ever tell you you have beautiful hair?	Come on, let' s get busy.
you	Dominic.	What are you doing here?	I just want to tell you you' re right.	Being a parent means being there every day.
plan	I don' t have a plan.	Yes, you do!	You' re on the non- plan plan.	I am not on a non- plan plan!
plan	Yes, you do!	You' re on the non- plan plan.	I am not on a non- plan plan!	You are too!
doo	- I' m on right now?	I don' t believe you. -?	Doo doo doo.?	- Ron!
you	Ask anyone who' s tried me.	Ask my old man.	By the time I' m done with you you' il be in some alley giving blow- jobs to cab drivers for pocket change to get a cup of coffee.	Because you' re a loser and that' s what happens to losers.
that	Why?	What would you say if I told you that notebook you read every day...... used to have a lot of stuff about me in it?	I would say that that makes a lot of sense.	You erased me from your memories...... because you thought you were holding me back from having...... a full and happy life.
that	To "delete program of Stepford"	What is happening he/ she?	What is that that am I dressing?	Mike!
that	I thought that you knew!	You are a shame!	For everything that that city acts!	For the future!
anything	Julie, focus.	What do you want more than anything in this world?	Anything anything?	Ultimate anything.
you	Don' t tell me not to fly I' ve simply got to	If someone takes a spill it' s me and not you	Who told you you' re allowed to rain on my parade	I' m gonna live and live now
that	I think a lot of people just saw that.	Yeah, but it' s local news.	There' s no way that that Russian or Rudy guy saw it.	Mr. Rudy.
smack	Just when I oughta say nix	When a person tries to kiss a girl	I know she oughta give his face a smack Smack.	[Low <i>V</ i>oice]
hare	Ollie, come on, you' re ruining my karma level here.	What, buying me one lunch is gonna square you with Krishna?	Hare Hare!	ls Monday OK?
you	- I guess I' il just get this.	- Gert, what are you doing?	I distinctly remember your father telling you you could get Dirty Dancing.	- Oh, yeah!
that	"It' s this little tiny point of really dense matter right at the center...	"surrounded by a kind of fluffy probability cloud of electrons... popping in and out of existence. '	But then it turns out that that' s not even right.	Even the nucleus, which we think of as so dense... pops in and out of existence just as readily as the electrons do.
that	When I create my day... and out of nowhere little things happen... that are so unexplainable...	I know that they are the process or the result of my creation.	And the more I do that, the more I build a neural net in my brain... that I accept that that' s possible... it gives me the power and the incentive to do it the next day.	[Man Singing]
doo	- You are on.	- I' m on right now?	I don' t believe you. - # Doo doo doo. # - Ron!	Oh, come on.
you	Thank you.	AII right.	We' II teII you you' re the best after you teII us how you did it.	How can I refuse a dying man' s Iast request?
that	- Exactly!	- What are you saying?	That that' s the point?	I' m no fun?
very	- Very.	Would you rather I continued as a watcher or a witness?	Very very.	Now tell us why you did it, okay?
dirty	I knew all along why your hair smells of poo but I kept quiet 'cause I thought you were different and that under your dirt, you deserved to be... clean.	But you' re like all of your tribe.	Dirty Dirty!	Wait!
dirty	I could have pok...	What' s Dungface doing here?	You called my daughter a dirty Dirty!	Nobody does that!
dirty	You called my daughter a dirty Dirty!	Nobody does that!	Nobody calls my girl a dirty Dirty.	Proud of yourself?
you	- What' s this all about?	What' s going on?	- I told you you could use an umbrella.	What?
get	Yes.	95 pound of Chinese finest manmade, with $160 millions behind this door.	Lets get get' em out.	Yeah.
bora	About the tour.	He' s hoping to fit the honeymoon into the schedule.	How does Bora Bora sound?	Very... sexy- sexy?
are	what is that? max' s cell phone?	when did he get a cell phone?	I' m asking a question, punk it' s none of your damn business it' s my business to find out how old you are are you threatening me? no but I' m coming to you whenever...	I' m so sorry that' s a wrong number that was an old man on the cell phone
you	I' il only be blessed to make friends you' d be one what you guys from me?	I' m losing my territory are other animals moving in on you or something? the human kind.	They' re cutting down our homes busting our families we hear they' re cutting down the whole forest you' re talking to the wrong person you gotta contact the nature groups like that has to be you you are the only one who know how to speak human we can' t fight humans on my own they got guns, knives and pull out couches sure I got rabies, I can bite but I really can' t do so much you guys have no idea what I' m talking about, do you? it' s human against nature but with you on our side that' d be nice me on your side, I didn' t say I was gonna help you	I didn' t say it before you say no
there	how do you save the forest anyway? it' s not gonna be easy	I assume the lumber companies have a lot of crowd but I do know a few endangered species living in the forest who definitely have lost the protective how am I gonna find how many endangered animals living in the forest you can ask Eugine we find the endangered species the females killed by the poachers it' s the only western Pacific bear at least one bear has to be protected, right?	let the lawyer of the logging company argue this since she is the only up there there' s no chance for survival anyway there had to be a male too so we get a male up there and let them together	let nature take its course the only male western Pacific bear we can find is raised in captivity never has a bear raised in captivity been successfully reintroduced to the wild they never have a world famous doctor make an introduction your man left the button open something wrong?
disappointed	let nature take its course the only male western Pacific bear we can find is raised in captivity never has a bear raised in captivity been successfully reintroduced to the wild they never have a world famous doctor make an introduction your man left the button open something wrong?	I hope he didn' t see it	I know you' re really disappointed disappointed? about not going to Europe? why' d I be disappointed?	I made you a promise and I' m gonna stick to it you don' t want me to it
you	look at the way she walks	I love her wet	I' m going over to introduce you you just wait here tell her I really her fat pouch but don' t be cruel	I' il try to work that
weird	hey Acher come over here	I think we can work it out what do I say to her? tell her a little more about yourself tell her a little more about yourself	I like walking on the beach and sharing pop corns with someone and also the sound of back street boys you' re weird weird?	Isn' t sexy
you	Evy doesn' t like me	I' m sick and tired of your complaints	look up at the tree, what do you see? a bird a bird and its home and below is a squirrel down is a little rabbit in his home all these animals are depending on you you can do it.	Just listen to your inner bear just trust him he' il tell you what to do
one	She could be the one.	Or one of the ones.	There' s notjust one one.	There' s fractions of one, half ones, quarter ones.
out	One day all the sources in town dried out.	In those days there lived a dragonking and a woman.	The let the sources drie out out of revenge.	Nobody dared fight the dragons... but Kao lang volunteered.
hee	Call me!	Let' s do something freaky.	Hee hee!	Like what, Ray?
sing	Crushed when he caught his wife cheating, he' s feeling older, he looks around and says "Maybe it' s time I get mine."	Guy named Peterson tried the same.	Now he' s a houseguest in Sing Sing.	I' m sure you know him better than I do.
and	I trap her, so she starts seducing me with her feminine wiles.	Meaning what?	Suddenly, I' m handsome and and she can' t her hands off me.	Does that sound like Fitzgerald?
you	You' re a jewel thief.	There' s a big difference between doing time for stealing jewels and frying in the electric chair.	Once they pump 200 millions volts of electricity through you you have a tendency to spend the rest of your days in an ashtray.	For a minute, I thought I overplayed my hand.
hot	It' s a hot dog.	It' s a hot dog.	It' s a hot hot dog.	It' s a hot dog.
cheeba	All y' all.	Y' all don' t wanna leave!	Yo, ladies and gentlemen Smoke cheeba cheeba Smoke cheeba cheeba	We got Toni Braxton up in the house
cheeba	Back to get ya Put it in check That' s the mista	Meth with his wood on your neck Shut your lips up	Smoke cheeba cheeba Smoke cheeba cheeba	So high that I could kiss the sky
cheeba	You better shut your trap when my dogs around	We pissin 'on fire hydrants so walk around, bitch	Smoke cheeba cheeba Smoke cheeba cheeba	Yeah, so high till I reach the sky
chop	- As far as I know.	All right, maggots!	Chop chop!	(Jo) Dearest Gilly, I' m sorry I left without saying goodbye.
louie	(captain) Please put your seats to the upright position..... in preparation for our arrival in Puerto Vallarta.	("Louie Louie" by The Kingsmen)	Louie Louie	Oh, no
heh	[Breathes deeply]	[Footsteps]	Heh heh.	Didn' t tell you, either.
five	How far are you down?	I' m not so bad.	Twenty- five five.	Social security.
something	Okay, maybe I wasn t allowed on the property, but that didn' t mean I couldn t keepan eye on her	And then she did something that sent me over the edge	I knew I had to do something something drastic to salvage what little I had left	I got the ten thousand.
cheeba	Y' all don' t wanna leave!	[Woman Vocalizing]	Yo, ladies and gentlemen Smoke cheeba cheeba Smoke cheeba cheeba	We got Toni Braxton up in the house
cheeba	Back to get ya Put it in check That' s the mista	Meth with his wood on your neck Shut your lips up [Vocalizing Continues]	Smoke cheeba cheeba Smoke cheeba cheeba	So high that I could kiss the sky
cheeba	You better shut your trap when my dogs around	We pissin 'on fire hydrants so walk around, bitch [Vocalizing Continues]	Smoke cheeba cheeba Smoke cheeba cheeba	Yeah, so high till I reach the sky
you	Okay, if you just want to fool around a little bit --	Hey, I don' t want to sleep with you!	I' ve been trying to tell you you' ve been missing for a week.	Would you look at the date.
had	Did you already know that?	No, I didn' t.	Since herseparation from her husband she had had many suitors...	... but had not considered a single one until this moment.
heh	Shh.	Bad man.	Heh heh.	Didn' t tell you, either.
that	You didn' t have to do this.	The least we could do, seeing as how you worked so hard to become "indispensable" to the company.	Is that that new thing called sarcasm?	Hal, we all know you' re about as deep as a puddle.
vicki	- Vicki!	- Who' s Vicki?	Vicki Vicki.	With the short brown hair.
that	Oh, shit!	Washington has agreed that as we have the contacts...... that we should undertake the financing and arming...... of the Silent Opposition.	And it' s been agreed that that task be undertaken by an older hand.	By myself, in fact.
squash	You bet!	Because I need a partner tomorrow at 5: 00.	- Oh, squash squash!	- You know.
yeah	# My love is alive #	# My love is alive #	# Yeah yeah yeah #	# Whoo! ##
something	Okay, maybe I wasn t allowed on the property, but that didn' t mean I couldn t keepan eye on her	And then she did something that sent me over the edge	I knew I had to do something something drastic to salvage what little I had left	I got the ten thousand.
that	You didn' t have to do this.	The Ieast we could do, seeing as how you worked so hard to become "indispensable" to the company.	Is that that new thing caIled sarcasm?	Hal, we aII know you' re about as deep as a puddle.
vicki	- Vicki!	- Who' s Vicki?	Vicki Vicki.	With the short brown hair.
ooh	Thou shalt not disgrace thyself...... before the wedding.	I must hide and dress for the banquet.	Ooh ooh ohh!	Sire, your bride looks like a gorgeous sparrow.
woo	Bloody English wizards.	They cannot do anything right.	Woo woo.	Ah, here we go.
woo	Woo woo.	Ah, here we go.	Woo woo.	I like your chariot.
with	- No, thanks.	I' m fine. - oK.	So it' s this man here, the one with with his hand up?	Yes.
party	Will you?	Hm?	Oh, you mean a party party?	Like for everyone' s fun.
ever	Now flash your teeth	Not like a grimace but more relaxed...	Now pull the sides of your mouth ever ever closer to the ears...	And don' t forget to blink your eyes
that	The trick is not to think about the audience at all	Just pick one nice person in the audience whom you sing to	And when you see that that one person likes your show - you know everyone else likes it too	What if he doesn' t like it?
yes	Say hi from us.	- Yes, yes!	The boys say hi and yes yes	It went really well
bye	- I 'il tell him.	- Thank you.	Bye bye.	See you later.
hello	I told you before the video store owner	Oh, I see	Hello Hello	Wait one moment
something	Hello?	Who' s this?	- Somebody from something something.	- Okay.
you	What you don' t know will kill you!	What you don' t know won' t hurt you, it' il kill you.	Like if they tell you you' re going to showers but they turn out not to be showers.	Ray Polito.
knock	I' m going to marry again, nail the guy' s ass good.	And this time there' il be no Puffy von Espy.	Knock knock.	Excuse me.
that	I am, of course, aware that these remarks will be received here with cynicism.	Cynicism, that cloak that advertises our indifference... and hides all human feeling.	Well, l" m here to tell you that that cynicism which we think protects us... in fact destroys.	Destroys love, destroys our clients, and, ultimately, destroys ourselves.
blah	Now, repeat after me, Nate:	Goosfraba.	Goos blah blah.	Not "blah blah," Nate.
blah	Goosfraba.	Goos blah blah.	Not "blah blah," Nate.	Goosfraba.
friend	This guy' s your girl' s best friend?	No.	I mean, I like to consider myself her best friend...... but Andrew is her best friend friend, if that makes any sense.	You ought to golf yourself.
you	So you serve at the castle.	It seems like I serve here at Apollonia' s.	Has anyone ever told you you were pretty? -	No...
blah	Now, repeat after me, Nate:	Goosfraba.	Goos blah blah.	Not "blah blah," Nate.
blah	Goosfraba.	Goos blah blah.	Not "blah blah," Nate.	Goosfraba.
friend	This guy' s your girl' s best friend?	No.	I mean, I like to consider myself her best friend...... but Andrew is her best friend friend, if that makes any sense.	You ought to golf yourself.
something	Hello?	Who' s this?	- Somebody from something something.	- Okay.
hee	Let' s go.	Okay.	Hee hee.	[Speaking French]
blah	Now, repeat after me, Nate:	Goosfraba.	Goos blah blah.	Not "blah blah," Nate.
blah	Goosfraba.	Goos blah blah.	Not "blah blah," Nate.	Goosfraba.
friend	This guy' s your girl' s best friend?	No.	I mean, I like to consider myself her best friend...... but Andrew is her best friend friend, if that makes any sense.	You ought to golf yourself.
bye	And as usual, my darling girl... and Sam' s darling mum was right.	So she' s going to say her final farewell to you not through me but, inevitably, ever so coolly, through the immortal genius of the Bay City Rollers.	 Bye bye baby, baby goodbye	Goodbye baby, baby bye bye
bye	So she' s going to say her final farewell to you not through me but, inevitably, ever so coolly, through the immortal genius of the Bay City Rollers.	(On speakers) Bye bye baby, baby goodbye	Goodbye baby, baby bye bye	Bye bye baby
bye	(On speakers) Bye bye baby, baby goodbye	Goodbye baby, baby bye bye	Bye bye baby	Don' t make me cry Goodbye baby, baby bye bye
bye	Goodbye baby, baby bye bye	Bye bye baby	Don' t make me cry Goodbye baby, baby bye bye	You' re the one girl in town I' d marry
bye	I could love you but why begin it?	Cos there ain' t any future in it	She' s got me but I' m not free so...  Bye bye baby, baby goodbye	Goodbye baby, baby bye bye
bye	Cos there ain' t any future in it	She' s got me but I' m not free so... (From DJ booth) Bye bye baby, baby goodbye	Goodbye baby, baby bye bye	Bye bye baby, don' t make me cry
bye	She' s got me but I' m not free so... (From DJ booth) Bye bye baby, baby goodbye	Goodbye baby, baby bye bye	Bye bye baby, don' t make me cry	Goodbye baby, baby bye bye
bye	Goodbye baby, baby bye bye	Bye bye baby, don' t make me cry	Goodbye baby, baby bye bye	Wish I never had known you...
bye	Yes.	Erm...	Bye bye baby, baby goodbye	Goodbye baby, baby bye bye...
bye	Erm...	Bye bye baby, baby goodbye	Goodbye baby, baby bye bye...	This DJ, what do you reckon?
business	Mm.	Erm...	Listen, why don' t I give you a lift and then we can talk about this state business business in the car.	OK.
bling	I want my money.	You fail to realize that putting together this operation has been quite expensive.	Bling bling!	Excuse me?
that	Hey, player, we were just hired to kidnap Bill Gluckman' s son, man.	- That' s all we was doing.	- Is that that dude running for governor?	- You know him?
that	Any normal person with a normal sense of self- preservation...... would understand that all an artist has is his life.	And what he observes as he passes through his life.	And any serious writer hanging out for years with the rich, well...... my God, you´d have to be deluded to the point of derangement...... not to realize that that writer was taking notes.	My God, I even told them.
cher	- lt´s called Honey and the Beaze.	Cher plays Honey, I have the role of Mack Beasley.	- Cher Cher?	- One of the nicest women.
you	What you don' t know will kill you!	What you don' t know won' t hurt you, it' il kill you.	Like if they tell you you' re going to showers but they turn out not to be showers.	Ray Polito.
hee	Let´s go.	Okay.	Hee hee.	Oh.
yeah	What?	That' s my mom.	Try listening to the Yeah Yeah Yeahs,	The Vines, The Breeders.
duran	You don' t really strike me as a Van Morrison fan.	Listen, you pseudo Ray Charles, I was listening to Van Morrison before you got your first pair of stone- washed jeans.	In other words, I had style before you could read the words "Duran Duran" in braille.	Word.
duran	- What?	Yes, you said:	"The 'words' Duran Duran", but it' s the same word twice.	So it' s the "word" Duran Duran.
duran	Yes, you said:	"The 'words' Duran Duran", but it' s the same word twice.	So it' s the "word" Duran Duran.	It' s still two words, you dumb fuck.
duran	It' s still two words.	Just say:	"The 'name' Duran Duran".	You wouldn' t say:
duran	"The 'name' Duran Duran".	You wouldn' t say:	"The 'names' Duran Duran", would you?	And you don' t say: "the sports ping and pong".
had	O... 2...	Okay.	'Cause we had had a slightly different figure in our heads.	We were thinking maybe something a little closer to, like... half a "K."
bye	And as usual, my darling girl... and Sam' s darling mum was rigHt.	So sHe' s going to say Her final farewell to you not tHrougH me but, inevitably, ever so coolly, tHrougH tHe immortal genius of tHe Bay City Rollers.	 Bye bye baby, baby goodbye	Goodbye baby, baby bye bye
bye	So sHe' s going to say Her final farewell to you not tHrougH me but, inevitably, ever so coolly, tHrougH tHe immortal genius of tHe Bay City Rollers.	(On speakers) Bye bye baby, baby goodbye	Goodbye baby, baby bye bye	Bye bye baby
bye	(On speakers) Bye bye baby, baby goodbye	Goodbye baby, baby bye bye	Bye bye baby	Don' t make me cry Goodbye baby, baby bye bye
bye	Goodbye baby, baby bye bye	Bye bye baby	Don' t make me cry Goodbye baby, baby bye bye	You' re tHe one girl in town I' d marry
bye	I could love you but wHy begin it?	Cos tHere ain' t any future in it	SHe' s got me but I' m not free so...  Bye bye baby, baby goodbye ¶ Goodbye baby, baby bye bye ¶ Bye bye baby, don' t make me cry ¶ Goodbye baby, baby bye bye ¶ WisH I never Had known you... ¶	Do you love Him?
bye	So tHat' s a no, tHen?	Yes.	Erm... ¶ Bye bye baby, baby goodbye ¶ Goodbye baby, baby bye bye... ¶	THis DJ, wHat do you reckon?
hunka	- There' s gotta be a card...	- Is that Michael?... for a redhead from...	- I can' t see.... a newly smitten hunka hunka burning love.	I mean...
you	You wanna go out on a date with me?	See?	I told you you' d ask me.	Macon, I think I like you too much already to actually go out with you.
romeo	Miamor, of course.	You wanna... keep reading?	Until you call me romeo romeo- meo	I will wait outsideyour window - rome- romeo take you anywhere take you anywhere you want to go
you	What you don' t know will kill you!	What you don' t know won' t hurt you, it' il kill you.	Like if they tell you you' re going to showers but they turn out not to be showers.	Ray Polito.
kappa	The Snap Cup is essential to any bipartisan environment.	Consider 1998 Spring Carnival.	The Delta Nus partnered with the Kappa Kappa Gammas... on Project Kissing Booth.	Big problems.
aye	(PA) Will the parents of the young lad in the Spider- Man T- shirt please meet him under the gorilla.	Now, excitement in the main tent, where the WI judging' s begun.	- Aye aye.	- Jury' s back.
weird	I don' t know.	She' s being weird.	Normal weird, or weird weird?	- She found this.
and	And now a report on the solemn honouring...	- This is it!	Blue - and and white- collar workers, scientists and joint farmers,	Blue - and and white- collar workers, scientists and joint farmers, artists and veteran workers came to Berlin today, to receive the highest honourings of our country in the Council of State. to receive the highest honourings of our country.
and	- This is it!	Blue - and and white- collar workers, scientists and joint farmers,	Blue - and and white- collar workers, scientists and joint farmers, artists and veteran workers came to Berlin today, to receive the highest honourings of our country in the Council of State. to receive the highest honourings of our country.	That' s you, Mum!... and recognition of outstanding merits during the building up... and development of the socialist social order.
knock	I' m going to marry again, nail the guy' s ass good.	And this time there' il be no puffy von espy.	Knock knock.	Excuse me.
yeah	Well, thanks, but i' m going on business.	I always win.	Yeah yeah you know why i hate this town, wrigley?	You see, people get to las vegas, and all of a sudden, the rules of the moral universe don' t apply.
that	I am, of course, aware that these remarks will be received here with cynicism.	Cynicism, that cloak that advertises our indifference... and hides all human feeling.	Well, i' m here to tell you that that cynicism which we think protects us... in fact destroys.	Destroys love, destroys our clients, and, ultimately, destroys ourselves.
you	Someone from the West.	You have to sleep.	If you want you you can sleep lie down in the nurses' room.	There he was.
bling	I want my money.	You fail to realize that putting together this operation has been quite expensive.	Bling bling!	Excuse me?
that	Hey, player, we were just hired to kidnap Bill Gluckman' s son, man.	- That' s all we was doing.	- ls that that dude running for governor?	- You know him?
hee	Let' s go.	Okay.	Hee hee.	[Speaking french]
that	You know what would' ve been a little more impressive, though?	If you hadn' t used the cheesy file cabinet illusion.	Anybody with a brain stem can tell that that drawer... is being fed through the wall from the other side.	All you have to do is find the crease, right around here.
electricity	But nuclear power is supposed to be very stable.	Yes, I suppose it is.	But isn' t electricity electricity?	Whether it comes from nuclear power or water power?
that	Kurwa mac!	"Kurwa mac" means "holy shit" in Polish,	I learned that that day,	The fact I' m trying to speak Polish in Italy is just one of the many surprises around here,
have	You shouldn' t have to wake up day after day after that, trying to understand how in the world you didn' t know.	The light just never went on, you know.	I must have have known, of course, but I was too scared to see the truth.	Then fear just makes you so stupid.
you	That do the trick?	- Let' s sit.	I told you you were gonna like it here.	No way!
bye	- I' II teII him.	- Thank you.	Bye bye.	See you Iater.
night	Airplane into the hangar.	Zzz -- ow!	AII right, pumpkin, night night.	'Night, Mom.
aye	I Iike your flight suit.	- I' m a custodian.	- Well, then... aye aye, sir!	Okay, what are you crazy boys doing in my tool shed?
iicka	- Hi, Ching Chung.	What do you have?	Uh...... Iicka Iicka pow!	She' s saying "beautiful swan..."
you	- Yeah,	Yeah, in my opinion she was,	I bet you you still keep a picture of her in your wallet,	- Yeah, I do, - Can I see it?
was	You have to let me explain,	Look, Tom, Tonight was just a big mistake, That' s all there is to it,	No, you,,, that,,, what you saw with the girls, all that was was weird timing,	Red?
muhammad	lf you love America, vote Mays Gilliam for President.	Paid for by Citizens for Mays Gilliam.	The part of Mays Gilliam' s security director... will now be played by Muhammad Muhammad Muhammad.	Childcare is one of the most important issues facing this country today.
her	<i>A</ i> wedding.	<i>A</ i> wedding, yeah.	You know, I promised her her wedding... you know, the wedding of her dreams.	Okay.
zip	<i>You my electrical lip balm flava </ i>	<i>I gotta do ya till</ i> <i>the next song saves ya </ i>	<i>Can I get a little zip zip</ i> <i>Looky, looky </ i> 	<i>Maybejust a little uh</ i>- <i>uh </ i> <i>Looky, looky </ i>
hunka	For a redhead from...	- I can' t see.	A newly smitten hunka hunka burning love.	I mean...
you	You wanna go out on a date with me?	See?	I told you you' d ask me.	Macon, I think I like you too much already to actually go out with you.
something	Hello?	Who' s this?	- Somebody from something something.	- Okay.
had	O... 2...	Okay.	'Cause we had had a slightly different figure in our heads.	We were thinking maybe something a little closer to, like... half a "K."
lambda	Yeah.	Everybody except for...	Lambda Lambda Lambda.	Here' s one that will see us.
lambda	Lambda Lambda Lambda.	Here' s one that will see us.	 Lambda Lambda Lambda?	Yeah.
lambda	# (Betty) We prefer your high lQs	# To their great big... jocks	# Lambda Lambda Lambda boys	# Really are the best
lambda	# Won' t you take a piece of Pi?	# And we' il do the rest	The sisters of Pi welcome our newest fraternity, Lambda Lambda Lambda.	We' d like to be escorts to your party Saturday night and help out in any way possible.
lambda	Poindexter, do you wanna fuck or not?	- (she roars) - Agh!	You know, if we get into Lambda Lambda Lambda, we could be partners in the homecoming carnival.	- That' d be so great.
lambda	# Old MacDonald had a farm	# E- l- E- l- O (jeering)	We' il never get into Lambda Lambda Lambda now.	Those jocks ruined everything.
lambda	- Now say "Hi, UN."	- (all) Hi, UN.	 Well, I' d like to propose a toast to UN Jefferson, who, in his ultimate wisdom, chose to accept us into our new fraternity, Lambda Lambda Lambda.	(all) Lambda Lambda Lambda.
lambda	- (all) Hi, UN.	(Lewis) Well, I' d like to propose a toast to UN Jefferson, who, in his ultimate wisdom, chose to accept us into our new fraternity, Lambda Lambda Lambda.	 Lambda Lambda Lambda.	Before we take this matter to a vote, I would like it clearly stated in the record...
lambda	(well- played violin riff)	# Clap your hands, everybody And everybody clap your hands	# We' re Lambda Lambda Lambda and Omega Mu	# We come here on stage tonight to do our show for you
lambda	(wild cheering and applause)	I' d like to present the trophy to this year' s champions,	Lambda Lambda Lambda and Omega Mu.	They will be able to select the president of next year' s Greek Council.
lambda	Nerds!	What are we waitin 'for?!	# We' re Lambda Lambda Lambda and Omega Mu  Nerds!	Nerds!
you	Free yourself	- Close quote - Who are you?	What about you you rotten bastard?	I made up my mind when I was imprisoned
that	She was a totaI slut	On the outside she acted Iike a prude but she was a filthy whore on the inside	Rumors had it that that slut fucked everyone at schooI	I should' ve gotten in there
you	StiII haven' t figured it out?	You Iead a stranger to your place Who the heII are you?	What about you you rotten bastard?	We hypnotized both of you
woof	I' m Woo- jin' s dog from now on!	I' m your puppy!	Woof Woof Woof Wooof	Look, I' m wagging my taiI
that	- The police.	You' ve been listening to Patrick McCarthy, no doubt.	Let me tell you that that man hasn' t been to Mass in the last 1 0 years.	That may be, but I think McCarthy' s right about those kids.
heh	How much?	Enough to take me on the rest of your trip... to sunny southern Florida?	Heh heh!	- Could we, Mom?
heh	<i>SPO T. 665? </ i>	Oh, it must be the next one down that- a- way.	Heh heh heh.	Florida -- land of surprises.
hee	You' re welcome, stranger.	Well, as long as I' m here...	Hee hee hee.	Ooh, they' il love this.
heh	Lots of Scotts.	Scotts R Us.	Heh heh.	But I' m Scott, uh...
heh	<i>Tlhene' s sometlhing about</ i> <i>eating unden tlhe stans... </ i> at a table, sitting in a chair, using a fork... that just makes everything taste so good.	Well, to me, it' s not the food, it' s the company.	Heh heh heh.	I don' t know why, but it' s as if...
lhelh	I told you we were small but mighty!	<i>MAN.	Helh lhelh lhelh. </ i>	[Speaking Spanish]
ooh	# Hot diggity dog #	WOMEN:	# Ooh ooh ooh #	# Yeah, yeah #
wow	# Ooh, dig that dog #	# Hot diggity dog #	# Bow wow wow #	# Bow wow #
wow	# Bow wow wow #	# Bow wow #	# Wow wow #	# Ooh, dig that dog #
heh	How much?	Enough to take me on the rest of your trip... to sunny southern Florida?	Heh heh!	- Could we, Mom?
heh	SPO T. V 665?	Oh, it must be the next one down that- a- way.	Heh heh heh.	Florida -- land of surprises.
hee	You' re welcome, stranger.	Well, as long as I' m here...	Hee hee hee.	Ooh, they' il love this.
heh	Lots of Scotts.	Scotts R Us.	Heh heh.	But I' m Scott, uh...
heh	Tlenre" s sometling about eating undenr tle stanrs... at a table, sitting in a chair, using a fork... that just makes everything taste so good.	Well, to me, it' s not the food, it' s the company.	Heh heh heh.	I don' t know why, but it' s as if...
ooh	Hot diggity dog	WOMEN:	Ooh ooh ooh	Yeah, yeah
wow	Ooh, dig that dog	Hot diggity dog	Bow wow wow	Bow wow
wow	Bow wow wow	Bow wow	Wow wow	Ooh, dig that dog
you	Pretty woman [Music]	[Music]	I don' t believe you You' re not the truth [Music]	
you	Pretty woman [Music]	[Music]	I don' t believe you You' re not the truth [Music]	
yeah	- ^^ The ghetto ^^ - ^^Somethin' about the ghetto ^^	- ^^Ho, ho ^^ - ^^ The ghetto ^^	- ^^ Talkin '' bout the ghetto ^^ - ^^ Yeah yeah ^^	- ^^ The ghetto ^^ - ^^ Yeah, yeah, yeah ^^ ^^ Talkin '' bout the ghetto ^^
tricky	* It' s tricky to rock around *	* To rock around, that' s right on time, it' s tricky *	* It' s tricky Tricky, tricky, tricky *	* It' s tricky to rock around torock around, that' s right, on time *
tricky	* We know who' s inside *	* It' s tricky to rock around, to rock around, that' s right, on time *	* It' s tricky Tricky, tricky, tricky *	Isn' t he just the cutest little thing?
tricky	Isn' t he just the cutest little thing?	Oh, yeah, Kyle' s the man!	* Tricky, tricky Tricky, tricky **	** [Minnie Riperton.:
that	Right?	How do I look?	I have to say that that dress is just... gorgeous on you.	See?
chi	Wow!	What a place!	That' s the home of Chi Chi Potter, the socialite.	Chi Chi Valezquez Potter.
chi	What a place!	That' s the home of Chi Chi Potter, the socialite.	Chi Chi Valezquez Potter.	Now, Chi Chi' s got a necklace.
chi	That' s the home of Chi Chi Potter, the socialite.	Chi Chi Valezquez Potter.	Now, Chi Chi' s got a necklace.	It' s all emeralds with diamonds around it.
chi	We don' t have to tunnel anymore.	Now, Frenchy and I, we' re patrons of the arts.	So Chi Chi invited us to a big party there in a couple of weeks.	Frenchy' s out of town.
chi	She never knows what happened.	She' s, you know --	Chi Chi' s a dumb, flighty society dame.	She' s crazy.
chi	With a chance of light sprinkles followed by sunshine.	Right.	Chi Chi, would you get those photographs from the bedroom?	I wanna show Mr. Winkler the property in Aspen where we' re gonna build the theater.
chi	She' s been so down since the divorce.	And don' t you think... he got custody of the polo ponies.	Chi Chi, don' t forget those photographs for Mr. Winkler.	- Where' d he go?
chi	I think you' re gonna be very, very proud of me.	What?	- That' s Chi Chi Potter' s.	- Was.
chi	- That' s Chi Chi Potter' s.	- Was.	Was Chi Chi -- Was.	Keyword.
that	- Um -- - It is?	- Yeah.	Are you sure that that is the best thing?	- Oh, I -- - For -- For you?
her	Rejection, man.	You gotta piss her off.	Tell her her breath is rank.	I' m not tellin 'her that.
you	Did you say that I look beautiful?	Just like a little flower.	Hasn' t anyone ever told you you' re beautiful?	You' re very different in a way than anyone else is.
you	- First shot, you got it.	Is that why Tommy Beale' s coming over, and Denny?	What if I told you you were married to a very brilliant man?	I' d say I' d have to be a bigamist.
chi	Really?	(May) Wow, what a place.	That' s the home of Chi Chi Potter, the socialite.	Now, Chi Chi' s got a necklace, it' s all emeralds with diamonds around it, it' s a very famous necklace, maybe you saw it in a magazine.
chi	(May) Wow, what a place.	That' s the home of Chi Chi Potter, the socialite.	Now, Chi Chi' s got a necklace, it' s all emeralds with diamonds around it, it' s a very famous necklace, maybe you saw it in a magazine.	Would it have been on TV?
chi	Remember what happened with the tunnel.	Yeah, but we don' t have to tunnel any more.	Now, Frenchy and I, we' re patrons of the arts so Chi Chi invited us to a big party,	Frenchy' s out of town, you come with me, we get the necklace.
chi	I bring in a picture of the necklace, he makes me an exact duplicate, I switch, she never knows.	She' s a...	Chi Chi' s a dumb, flighty society dame.	By the time she figures out there' s been a switch,
chi	With a chance of light sprinkles followed by sunshine.	Absolutely.	Chi Chi, would you get those photos in the bedroom?	I want to show Mr Winkler the property in Aspen.
chi	If you could fit it in to your schedule, it would mean so much.	She' s been so down since the divorce and don' t you think - he got custody of the Pola- Polas.	Chi Chi, don' t forget those photographs for Mr Winkler.	Oh, I' il get them.
kiss	So, you will try?	- I' il do my best.	- Kiss kiss.	Mrs Potter is coming!
chi	- Just let me...	I think you' re gonna be very, very proud of me.	That' s Chi Chi Potter' s!	Was...
chi	That' s Chi Chi Potter' s!	Was...	Was Chi Chi...	Was!
hey	Oh, Mickey, you' re so fine	You' re so fine you blowmy mind Hey, Mickey	Hey, hey Hey, Mickey	Hey, hey
hey	Oh, Mickey, you' re so fine	You' re so fine you blowmy mind Hey, Mickey	Hey, hey Hey, Mickey	That was shitty.
love	Ain 't got no sense ofpride Pride	Boy, yougot a weirdperception now Yo	Ofwhat is it to love Love	Andlam sure because Because
because	Boy, yougot a weirdperception now Yo	Ofwhat is it to love Love	Andlam sure because Because	Yougot a look ofdesperation
asif	Oh, oh No, no, no, no	Asif I' m evergonna takeyou back	Asif Asif It' s evergonna come to that	So seeyou 'round wave good- bye Seeyou' round
bora	- You said it.	Check out this.	Bora Bora.	I was thinking more like Caribbean myself.
you	You may even get lucky tonight, Jack.	You' re so beautiful.	I already told you you were gonna get lucky.	My God.
you	40 points?	- That would be 45	A game like that sticks with you you never shake it off	- Got 3 concussions to prove it - That' s why girls don' t play
yeah	Didn' t anybody have anything better to do that day?	you should get some help to turn this back over yeah, I was thinking I' d call AAA later or something	- Do you want a lift? - yeah yeah, that would be great Thanks	Why' d you stay in the pocket at practice?
fears	Who wants to start?	Let' s talk about fears	Fears Fears	I' m scared of spiders, coach
franklin	Gonna need some time on this one	Here we go Same play Pro Right Switch 9 --	Franklin Franklin!	I can' t get the damn cup off! you can do this
you	Let' s start the show.	Do you know who this bookies belongs to?	lf you know what' s good for you you' il give me everything --	What are you doing?
that	You said you was innocent of that.	Well, I was lyin '.	And the preacher said that that sin' s been washed away, too.	Neither God nor man' s got nothin 'on me now.
shh	# Keep on the sunny side	# Always on the sunny side	Aw, shh shh.	Hang on!
hee	(Whimpering)	So long, boys.	Hee hee hee!	See you in the funny papers.
hee	# Ah dee yodel- lay- hee	# Oh de- lo tee	# Yodel- lay- hee hee, yodel- lay- hee hee	# Yodel- lay- heeeee
hee	- Not out the other side of his face.	- Just the regular side.	# Yodel- lay- hee hee, yodel- lay- hee hee	# Yodel- lay- heeeeee #
that	Now, folks, these boys gotta be remanded to the authorities.	Criminals!	And I have it from the highest authority that that Negro sold his soul to the devil!	Oh!
tricky	* It' s tricky to rock around *	* To rock around, that' s right on time, it' s tricky *	* It' s tricky Tricky, tricky, tricky *	* It' s tricky to rock around torock around, that' s right, on time *
tricky	* We know who' s inside *	* It' s tricky to rock around, to rock around, that' s right, on time *	* It' s tricky Tricky, tricky, tricky *	Isn' t he just the cutest little thing?
tricky	Isn' t he just the cutest little thing?	Oh, yeah, Kyle' s the man!	* Tricky, tricky Tricky, tricky **	You mean never?
had	She was a goddess.	More than I could ever possibly have hoped for.	I was corrupt with happiness. immediately declared all the feelings I had had for her.	I think even the word "love" was used.
you	How this world was yours and mine	And how no dream was out of reach	I stood by you You stood by me	We took each day and made it shine
you	And how this world was yours and mine	And how no dream was out of reach	Is to od by you you stood by me	We took each day and made it shine
ouch	It' s very difficult trying to read the situation and aII the while you' re just reaIly wondering, "Are we gonna get hopped enough to make some bad decisions?" And perhaps play a Iittle game caIled "Just the Tip."	Just for a second, just to see how it feels,	- or "Ouch Ouch, You' re on My Hair."	- Okay.
shout	# Shout shout shout shout shout shout #	# Shout shout shout shout shout shout shout shout #	# Shout shout shout, oh, shout #	# Whoa!
class	Yes, you did, class, first class aII the way.	You were not Iying.	Class class class.	They' ve got some kind of seasoning on here.
that	Um, uh....	you know, someone once told me that true love is the soul' s recognition of its counterpoint in another.	And I think that that' s a very rare thing in this world.	And I think it' s something to be valued.
cooi	- The problem' s not solved.	- DeaI us in.	Oh, cooI cooI cool!	I' m gonna run and find my dad!
very	- How?	- What do you mean how?	She was a very very family- oriented girl.	And she was very into her grandmother.
okay	- What do I do?	- Baba ganou!	Okay okay.	Home sweet home.
was	Turns out you can' t trust a book.	Yeah, they brought in this writer...... who managed to turn the entire story into some fairy tale.	In the first draft, he made it sound like my mother died...... single- handedly saving the country, when all it was was just, you know, a...	It was just a drug bust gone bad.
very	That is exactly the kind of nervous overall behavior that leads to...	Pictues of Sebby with busty brunettes.	A very very big raise.	Jesus!
great	What is there?	Oh, my God!	It' s my great great grandfather.	That' s his signature.
bye	Thanks.	Bye.	Bye bye.	Taxi.
lop	Earl...!	- Whad up?	Nescobar A Lop Lop.	It wasn' t easy but the hard things in life never are.
you	Wow.	You' re good.	Anyone ever tell you you should be on 60 Minutes?	Yes.
wha	It is true, he just hasn' t found you yet But he will.	As he' s leaving, guess what he says? "date doctor, my ass!"	Err... wha wha what does that mean?	It means he' s really out there.
bye	- 8 o' clock?	- Great	Alright, bye bye.	Bye
lie	What should be toast to?	Never lie, steal, cheat or drink!	But if you must lie lie in the arms of the one you love.	If you have to steal steal away from bad company.
steal	Never lie, steal, cheat or drink!	But if you must lie lie in the arms of the one you love.	If you have to steal steal away from bad company.	If you must cheat cheat death.
cheat	But if you must lie lie in the arms of the one you love.	If you have to steal steal away from bad company.	If you must cheat cheat death.	And if you must drink drink in the moments that take your breath away.
drink	If you have to steal steal away from bad company.	If you must cheat cheat death.	And if you must drink drink in the moments that take your breath away.	Did you make that up?
very	Taxi!	Mr. Hitchens	Mrs. Cole, thanks very very much for seeing me.	You said it was a matter of life and death.
bling	- Got them today.	Combined incomes.	Bling bling, baby!	Yeah.
bling	Bling bling, baby!	Yeah.	Bling bling.	Baby?
that	Baby, call me back.	Call me back, baby.	I' m looking at your bulletin board and there' s a picture of you... sitting next to a guy and I think that that guy might be Curtis Booker.	He looks like he' s got Bucky Beaver teeth.
that	What are you going to do?	What are you going to do?	Common there' s not a jury in the world that' s going to believe that that woman is selling drugs.	They will believe a guy like me does.
anything	# It happens every time	# Na- na- na na- na na- na na- na	# I can do anything Anything	# Na- na- na na- na na- na na- na #
can	[classical music]	[# Jacques Offenbach:	Can Can]	We love skating and we love gold!
can	Fans call her The Jumping Shrimp but remember that name because this little dynamo has been landing massive jumps.	[# Jacques Offenbach:	Can Can]	[Brian]
sing	Yes, you are, you are very good.	So where did you do your stretch?	Sing Sing?	Alcatraz?
most	And when that happens, I guess I' iljust be another notch on your briefcase.	I can' t believe you just said that.	Well, you know that you' re the most most important thing in my life.	Sorry, what was that?
you	Listen to me Carlos.	Your wife is an incredibly lucky woman.	I know relationships are tough, but you you just do what you gotta do to keep it together, okay?	Remember, love is sacrifice.
long	Foot on ball, and pull.	Go.	OK. "I got a long long day ahead of me"  Yeah!	Tap.
you	You want some advice?	You never call him.	But if he calls you you talk to him.... then act like you have another call.	Keep him on for a long time.
most	And when that happens, I guess I' il just be another notch on your briefcase.	I can' t believe you just said that.	Well, you know that you' re the most most important thing in my life.	Sorry, what was that?
you	Listen to me Carlos.	Your wife is an incredibly lucky woman.	I know relationships are tough, but you you just do what you gotta do to keep it together, okay?	Remember, love is sacrifice.
hide	- It' s okay.	- No no no no.	Hide hide hide!	Please please please.
please	- No no no no.	Hide hide hide!	Please please please.	You gotta hide, you gotta hide!
that	I' m scared.	I am.	But I think that that' s how everyone feels before they' re about to get married.	I mean, don' t you think?
that	- I wasn' t a virgin.	Far from it.	I just thought that that' s what guys wanted to hear.	Come on.
special	I' m diggin 'talkin' with ya.	You' re a really enlightened cat and I like that about ya.	I think you' re a special special man.	Okay, come in for the real thing.
whoa	She' s trying to kill me!	- Grandma!	- Whoa whoa!	- Get the gun from her!
okay	Don' t you fucking get up.	- Sack, will you just stop?!	- Okay okay.	Is that true?
okay	I' m not g...	John, I can' t...	Okay okay, listen to me, Tasmanian devil.	- Listen to me.
good	What an idiot!	Oh, what a loser!	Good good!	More for me and you.
whoa	That' s what makes today so special.	We witness two people choosing to marry ones they truly love.	Whoa whoa, hey!	Hey hey!
hey	We witness two people choosing to marry ones they truly love.	Whoa whoa, hey!	Hey hey!	He' s the best man.
hey	- I' m starving.	Fujimora wedding, 3: 00 P. M.	Hey hey.	I' m just throwing it out.
where	I heard the street said	You couldn' t get the job right now real or cheat?	Man, look, I want to go somewhere where where there desire to win	This is great, you know
deeply	How tall are you son?	- 6' 2 - 6' 2?	I deeply deeply love	Whoo, 6' 2?
shake	I need you to go out here be cool	Try not to chunk can you do that?	Give me some shake shake your base, you know	Double it up, you understand? allright?
you	Just one more	And thank you for dressing up	Very nice for you you look really nice	Thank you
most	And when that happens, I guess I' iljust be another notch on your briefcase.	I can' t believe you just said that.	Well, you know that you' re the most most important thing in my life.	Sorry, what was that?
you	Listen to me Carlos.	Your wife is an incredibly lucky woman.	I know relationships are tough, but you you just do what you gotta do to keep it together, okay?	Remember, love is sacrifice.
wop	Come on.	(# The Chiffons, One Fine Day)	# Shoo be do be do be do be do wop wop, shoo be do be do be do be do wop wop #	Come on, throw it.
wop	- Are you ready, TJ?	- Bugger off.	# You' re gonna want me for your girl # Shoo be do be do be do be do wop wop	# Oh, yeah #
wop	# Oh, yeah #	All right, batter, batter.	# The arms I long for will open wide # Shoo be do be do be do be do wop wop	# And you' il be proud to have me # Shoo be do be do be do be do wop wop
wop	All right, batter, batter.	# The arms I long for will open wide # Shoo be do be do be do be do wop wop	# And you' il be proud to have me # Shoo be do be do be do be do wop wop	# Right by your side # Shoo be do be do be do be do wop wop
wop	# The arms I long for will open wide # Shoo be do be do be do be do wop wop	# And you' il be proud to have me # Shoo be do be do be do be do wop wop	# Right by your side # Shoo be do be do be do be do wop wop	# One fine day
wop	# Right by your side # Shoo be do be do be do be do wop wop	# One fine day	# You' re gonna want me for your girl # Shoo be do be do be do be do wop wop #	- Move back.
wop	# When you want to settle down, oh! #	Be nice to me, Jeffrey.	# One fine day, we' il meet once more # Shoo be do be do be do be do wop wop #	- Out!
wha	It is true, he just hasn' t found you yet But he will.	As he' s leaving, guess what he says? "date doctor, my ass!"	Err... wha wha what does that mean?	It means he' s really out there.
bye	- 8 o' clock?	- Great	Alright, bye bye.	Bye
lie	What should be toast to?	Never lie, steal, cheat or drink!	But if you must lie lie in the arms of the one you love.	If you have to steal steal away from bad company.
steal	Never lie, steal, cheat or drink!	But if you must lie lie in the arms of the one you love.	If you have to steal steal away from bad company.	If you must cheat cheat death.
cheat	But if you must lie lie in the arms of the one you love.	If you have to steal steal away from bad company.	If you must cheat cheat death.	And if you must drink drink in the moments that take your breath away.
drink	If you have to steal steal away from bad company.	If you must cheat cheat death.	And if you must drink drink in the moments that take your breath away.	Did you make that up?
very	Taxi!	Mr. Hitchens	Mrs. Cole, thanks very very much for seeing me.	You said it was a matter of life and death.
sing	Yes, you are, you are very good.	So where did you do your stretch?	Sing Sing?	Alcatraz?
that	That' s some deal.	What' s in it for me?	I' il just make- believe that that dead Russian that I found in my house had nothing to do with you.	You don' t know what you' re doing, Chil.
you	You want some advice?	You never call him.	But if he calls you you talk to him.... then act like you have another call.	Keep him on for a long time.
but	No talking.	You' re lucky I' m letting you live.	But But my butt.	I should pull off on the side of the road...... dig a hole, and bury both you two.
heh	Just shut up and taKe me to the hotel!	JerK.	Heh heh.	Hello, 9- 1- 1?
heh	Well...	Ha ha ha ha ha!	Heh heh.	Your sister was right, man.
you	Hey, you Know what?	Don`t even worry about that... because with the money l`m paying you for this... you`il be able to afford your own place.	Your sister did tell you you`re getting paid for this?	No, not exact...
heh	Hey... remember when I said you were smart?	- Yeah.	- Heh heh!	I was lying, all right?
heh	I was thinKing the same thing.	Mmm.	Heh heh heh.	Your crusty lips... and my blacK ass.
the	# When your eyes were open wide #	- All right.	See you. - # For the the last... #	Hey, hey, wait.
that	That' s nice.	You' re not Jews, obviously.	Oh, well I mean not that that' s a good or a bad thing.	That they don' t just name their children after... okay, that was horrible.
that	I put up with your shit, because I know how much pain you' re in.	But it' s enough!	It' s a tall order for a patient motherfucker, and I am the farthest thing from that that you' re ever gonna lay eyes on.	... tomorrow.
long	Go.	OK.	I got a long long day ahead of me  Yeah!	Tap.
you	- You know?	- Yes, I know.	Well, I' m telling you you don' t know what you' re talking about.	Oh, OK.
smoke	I was gonna steal a cigarette.	Your mother doesn' t smoke.	Not smoke smoke, but she used to... once in a while.	She had the same pack of Newport Lights in there for seven years.
long	Go.	OK.	# I got a long long day ahead of me #  Yeah!	Tap.
that	- I don' t know.	What is he doing?	We got one situation here, now, fellas...... which is that that number wrong.	That' s incorrect right there.
liar	I am going to tell her.	You should totally tell her, man.	I`m going to. `Cause I watched this movie called Liar Liar... and the message was, ``Don`t lie. ``	And that was a smart movie.
tin	Did you ever meet any of the old stars, then?	What, are you kiddin '?	I took Rin Tin Tin out f or a shit, f or Christ' s sakes.	Ah, hey, you talk about stars, uh --
wah	Yuck!	The maudlin music of the university station?	Wah wah wah!	Yuck!
whoa	# Do you love me, Mary Jane?	# Yeah	# Whoa whoa whoa	# Do you, do you, do you, do you, do you
ruff	'cause you playin' with my emotions.	You heard?	Ruff ruff ruff!	What?
knock	- Ted?	- Yes?	 Knock knock.	- Who' s there?
very	We want Max to be in the best school.	- This is it.	- Because he' s a very very bright kid.	- Really bright.
that	What, shit?	Sometimes.	And someyears later, I heard that that fella did come up with a bumper sticker slogan and made a lot of money off of it.	Another time, I was running along.
that	[Horn Honks]	Have a nice day.	Someyears later, I found out that that man did come up with an idea for a T- shirt.	He made a lot of money.
you	Just being there, as you put it, is not enough.	Hmm, I' ve touched a nerve.	I' m astonished to hear you you trivialize my role in our sex life.	It wasn' t directed at you.
one	- and I' m supposed to follow it, right?	- Exactly.	I saw one one time that said,	"The next week, the world is ending."
that	You think that there is any chance he' d bring Christy Brinkley or C3PO?	Sorry.	I believe that that is just him.	Charlie!
yes	Sorry man!	But you watched the tape?	Yes yes yes, I liked it!	But my bosses did not.
you	Just being there, as you put it, is not enough.	Hmm, I' ve touched a nerve.	I' m astonished to hear you you trivialize my role in our sex life.	It wasn' t directed at you.
one	- and I' m supposed to follow it, right?	- Exactly.	I saw one one time that said,	"The next week, the world is ending."
aye	You just needed to say the word.	- Why don´t we launch the boat?	- Aye aye, captain!	It was a real problem finding Advent masks in July.
you	Just being there, as you put it, is not enough.	Hmm, I' ve touched a nerve.	I' m astonished to hear you you trivialize my role in our sex life.	It wasn' t directed at you.
one	- and I' m supposed to follow it, right?	- Exactly.	I saw one one time that said,	"The next week, the world is ending."
heh	And here comes our winner now.	All right.	Heh heh.	Well... boy, this is gonna be some contest.
heh	- Yeah.	You' re not one of him.	Well, heh heh, don' t listen to him.	No, Ox, don' t listen to Bittleman.
bling	## Selling tres mil at the gate? ##	## I' m the hottest thing around ##	## Neck full of bling bling like the Neptunes' sound ##	## I got it locked on the left, right, front, and rear ##
you	I' ve been to paradise but I' ve never been to me	Please lady, please lady, don' t just walk away	'Cause I have this need to tell you you why I' m all alone today	I can see so much of me still living in your eyes won' t you share a part of a weary heart that has lived million lies...
knock	Why certainly Madame.	And would you like vegemite or Jam with that?	Knock knock.	Room Service.
ever	We' re gonna play a special game,	But you can' t tell anybody.	Never, ever ever.	Now what I want you to do is put your hand down here and pull very gently
ever	Get Mummy.	What do you mean "no"?	Never, ever ever.	You know the best part?
shit	Oh Felicia...	Where the Fuckawei?	Shit shit shit!	Well, I' ve had a look around and I think we can safely assume that I now know less about motors than I did when I first lifted that... bonnety thing.
the	- It' s nice... in a hideous sort of a way.	Where are you going?	If you think I' m going to sit around watching Picasso take on the the public transport system, you' ve got another think coming.	I' il be back with the cavalry in a couple of hours.
the	Are you all right?	Where have they gone?	They' ve gone to the the Ca- ca- ca...	- Are you ill?
tica	Livingstone...	The Criekville Casino...	I remember, we made a hit with the Tica Tica Walk.	Tica Tica, what?
tica	The Criekville Casino...	I remember, we made a hit with the Tica Tica Walk.	Tica Tica, what?	Oh shit.
this	- Jesus, why don' t you turn your radio down?	- I can' t find anybody.	This this room 309, ain' t it?	So you didn' t put in the call, did you?
that	- Oh, we tried, but their agent says they' re still on the beach... and they won' t be off the sand till November!	Ba- da- bing!	Uh, well, didn' t somebody wearing my uniform and bearing a striking resemblance to myself... just say that that kind of music was inappropriate?	Sorry, sir.
that	I may go downtown, look for a Vietnamese man named Phil.	Or I may just stay here and listen to old Pat Boone records.	Try and find some hidden meaning 'cause basically I believe that that man is a misunderstood genius.	Genius.
gobble	Ahem.	I' il see you tomorrow then.	Gobble gobble.	[Imitates Turkey]
dum	That' s the end of those weekend cowboys!	Let' s go home.	Dum dum dum...	Jesus Oz, what are you doing?
you	The colorwars.	Norman, is thatyou?	My father tells you you' re going to college and you believe him?	Oh, snap.
real	Excuse me.	I' m gonna have to have you sign this little sheet of paper here.	Well, my agent would be real real miffed with me if I --	This doesn' t have to do with your deal.
bye	Thank you.	- Drive carefully.	- Bye bye.	Nice enough people.
very	- You wanna to help me?	- Redemption.	Loss and redemption is very very good.	Shit.
chim	I will never forget you.	Thank you very much.	Chim chiminy, Chim chiminy Chim chim cheree	A sweep is as lucky as lucky can be
chim	Chim chiminy, Chim chiminy Chim chim cheree	A sweep is as lucky as lucky can be	Chim chiminy, Chim chiminy Chim chim cheroo	Good luck will rub off when he shakes hands with you
chim	Chim chiminy, Chim chiminy Chim chim cheroo	Good luck will rub off when he shakes hands with you	Chim chiminy Chim chim cheree, chim cheroo	Rum diddly- diddly- diddly Rum diddle- die
chim	Just a spoonful of sugar helps the medicine go down	In the most delightful way	Chim chiminy, Chim chiminy Chim chim cheroo	I does what I likes And I likes
chim	Well, not Royal Academy, I suppose.	Still they' re better than a finger in your eye, ain' t they?	Chim chiminy, Chim chiminy Chim chim cheroo	I draws what I likes and I likes what I drew
chim	- Bye, Jane and Michael.	- Bye, Bert.	Chim chiminy, chim chiminy Chim chim cheroo	La dum da da dum da da da da dum
chim	I only observe that a father can always do with a bit of help.	Come on, I' il take you home.	Chim chiminy, chim chiminy Chim chim cheree	A sweep is as lucky as lucky can be
chim	Chim chiminy, chim chiminy Chim chim cheree	A sweep is as lucky as lucky can be	Chim chiminy, chim chiminy Chim chim cheroo	Good luck will rub off when I shakes hands with you
chim	Though I spends me time in the ashes and smoke	In this whole wide world there' s no happier bloke	Chim chiminy, chim chiminy Chim chim cheree	A sweep is as lucky as lucky can be
chim	Chim chiminy, chim chiminy Chim chim cheree	A sweep is as lucky as lucky can be	Chim chiminy, chim chiminy Chim chim cheroo	Good luck will rub off when I shakes hands with you
chim	Chim chiminy, chim chiminy Chim chim cheroo	Good luck will rub off when I shakes hands with you	Chim chiminy, chim chiminy Chim chim cheree	A sweep is as lucky as lucky can be
chim	Chim chiminy, chim chiminy Chim chim cheree	A sweep is as lucky as lucky can be	Chim chiminy, chim chiminy Chim chim cheroo	Good luck will rub off when I shakes hands with you
chim	Quite nice, but we should all get in out of the night air.	Follow me, please.	Chim chiminy, chim chiminy Chim chim cheree	When you' re with a sweep you' re in glad company
chim	When you' re with a sweep you' re in glad company	Nowhere is there a more happier crew	Then them what sings chim chim cheree, chim cheroo	Chim chiminy chim chim
chim	Nowhere is there a more happier crew	Then them what sings chim chim cheree, chim cheroo	Chim chiminy chim chim	Cheree chim cheroo
heh	[Imitates machine gun]	[Imitates machine gun]	Heh heh heh!	So, can I get you gentlemen something more to drink... or maybe something to nibble on -- some pizza shooters, shrimp poppers, or extreme fajitas?
dee	MAN SlNGlNG:	Dee dah dee- dee dee- dee	Yah dee dee	Dah dee- dee dah dee- dee dah dee
heh	[Michael clears throat]	I don' t -- I don' t know.	Heh heh.	I mean, I guess I sort of like them all.
aah	BlZ MARKlE SlNGlNG:	Canibus and the Biz	Ah- aah aah- ah	It' s coming from Canibus and the Biz
piu	There' re many people here, let' s go over there.	I' m Wan Tin Sau, and you?	Lau Piu Piu.	What do you want to learn?
piu	- Hello.	It' s you?	I' m Lau Piu Piu.	I' m your fans, can I' ve your autograph, please?
piu	He' s on my side...	Call the ambulance!	Piu Piu.	What' s going on?
piu	What are you looking at?	Fight back, nuts!	Piu Piu, I love you.	Wait
that	Is thatwhatyou kids caII itthese days?	Thatthing.	That moment when you kiss someone, and everything around you becomes hazy... and the only thing infocus is you and this person... and you realize that that person... is the only person that you´re supposed to kiss... forthe rest of your Iife.	Andfor one moment you getthis amazing gift, and you wanna Iaugh, and you wanna cry... ´Cause youfeeI so Iucky thatyoufound it and so scared that it´II go away aII atthe same time.
heh	You´re the one.	Oh.	Heh heh.	My penguin.
heh	Putthat down.	(Giggles)	Heh heh.	AII right.
heh	My sword.	Oh.	Heh heh.	Josie, you rock my world.
that	Is that what you kids call it these days?	That thing.	That moment when you kiss someone, and everything around you becomes hazy... and the only thing infocus is you and this person... and you realize that that person... is the only person that you' re supposed to kiss... for the rest of your life.	And for one moment you get this amazing gift, and you wanna laugh, and you wanna cry...
that	Josie' s odds are 3 to 1.	2 to 1 for the prom court.	Even money that that kid pokes himself with the sword... by the end of the evening.	The time is now to start the show...
heh	You' re the one.	Oh.	Heh heh.	My penguin.
heh	My sword.	Oh.	Heh heh.	Josie, you rock my world.
malkovich	I mean, it raises all sorts of philosophical- type questions, you know... about the nature of self, about the existence of a soul.	You know, am I me?	Is Malkovich Malkovich?	I had a piece of wood in my hand.
you	Come on, you two.	Shake a leg	You you like to dance?	Yeah, but let' s see if we DJ can play something with a little more...
hee	Plenty of vultures out here that' il pick your bones clean before morning.	- You fucking whore.	- Hee hee hee.	Here' s your half of the sunshine acid.
you	l- I wasn' t raising my voice, Mama.	I don' t like confrontation 'cause I' m a Virgo.	Who told you you was a Virgo?	Vicki Vallencourt, that- that- that- that girl. a girl?
freshy	- * Who got the hooch, baby * - [Snoring]	* Who got the only sweetest thing in the world *	* Who got the love Who got the freshy freshy *	* Who got the only sweetest thing *
this	Oh, well, if you' ve already got the check made out,	Th- that' s cool.	We received this this morning.	Since you have failed to achieve, even in the modest task which was your charge, since you have stolen my money, since you have unrepentantly betrayed my trust...
hee	Plenty of vultures out here that' il pick your bones clean before morning.	- You fucking whore.	- Hee hee hee.	Here' s your half of the sunshine acid.
heh	Kin Ton Ti.	Puffer doesn' t like bad guys, does he?	Heh heh heh.	Puffer?
dee	I thought some of my friends might be here.	Probably a couple of weeks past their bedtime.	There' s Dee Dee.	I hope she sees me.
dee	I hope she sees me.	Oh, shit.	Dee Dee.	Hiya, John.
love	ln a spin, loving the spin	l' m in under that	Old black magic called love Love	Love, love, love
that	- Yeah.	You wouldn' t like telling your wife.	- No, I can see that that would be a problem.	- I got the same problem, only multiplied.
lopo	Natasha Cohn	ENGLlSH SDH	Subtitles ripped 6. nov. 2002 by Lopo lopo@ losys. sk	Somewhere in the vaults of a bank in London... is a tin dispatch box with my name on it.
with	So have no way	I killed the first woman with the wooden staff	Ask her weather she can accompany with with me, she refused me	I can' t remember the details clearly
that	- how- how far away were you?	- About 50 feet.	Now, do you think that that' s close enough to make an accurate i- i- i- identification?	Yes.
heh	Get right out of town.	No, that' s it.	Heh heh.	- Ha ha ha!
don	These fold- outs take a lot of space.	There is someone next to you.	Oh, for God don don!	Who is it?
that	I' m afraid the best we can do for you is gonna be...	It' s gonna be $750.	If you check around, you' il see that that is a really good deal.	- Yeah?
that	Hey, Bob.	Yeah, here we go again.	{y: i} Basically, I don' t like {y: i} to work on carburettors, and I can tell without getting into it... that that is a complicated unit.	I understand.
boom	Come on down, buddy.	Come on.	Match in the gas tank, boom boom	Match in the gas tank, boom boom
boom	Come on.	Match in the gas tank, boom boom	Match in the gas tank, boom boom	Match in the gas tank, boom boom
boom	Match in the gas tank, boom boom	Match in the gas tank, boom boom	Match in the gas tank, boom boom	Match in the gas tank, boom boom
boom	Match in the gas tank, boom boom	Match in the gas tank, boom boom	Match in the gas tank, boom boom	Boom boom boom boom
boom	Match in the gas tank, boom boom	Boom boom boom boom	Match in the gas tank, boom boom {y: i} Good boy.	Come on down, buddy.
nonny	- Hey!	- I said Hey!	- Hey nonny nonny and a ho ho ho	The people were unhappy Morale was low
nonny	- Hey!	- I said Hey!	- Hey nonny nonny and a ho ho ho	He was put into the slammer By his Arab foe
nonny	- Hey!	- I said Hey!	- Hey nonny nonny, hey nonny nonny	Hey nonny nonny and a ho ho ho
nonny	- I said Hey!	- Hey nonny nonny, hey nonny nonny	Hey nonny nonny and a ho ho ho	Check it out!
sweet	- Well, you folks take care.	- Good to see you, Randy.	# I used to be such a sweet sweet thing 'til they #	# Got a hold of me #
this	One more witness and there´s no difference.	Right?	We can´t authenticate this this tape.	For aII we know he may had been coerced.
had	- I didn' t mean to kill her, you know.	- I know, but what happened?	She called and said that she and Randy had had a fight.	She wanted to come over and talk, and I said, "Meet me at our place."
sing	His name was Angelo.	- He' s handsome.	My old man was executed at Sing Sing in '59...... for murder.	I was 8.
had	- I didn' t mean to kill her, you know.	- I know, but what happened?	She called and said that she and Randy had had a fight.	She wanted to come over and talk, and I said, "Meet me at our place."
that	None of us will see heaven.	Michael could.	Then do everything that you can to see that that happens.	Leave.
had	- I didn' t mean to kiII her, you know.	- I know, but what happened?	She caIled and said that she and Randy had had a fight.	She wanted to come over and talk, and I said, "Meet me at our place."
you	Haven' t you thought about that?	Because that' s all I' m thinking about right now.	You want me to tell you you' re going to go with me with the cost?	Who is Katie?
aye	Then we land in Bermuda no later than 2 am.	Correct?	Aye aye, sir.	We refuel.... and Hoop' s piloting the balance of the journey to the Caymans.
her	- Hey, how are you holding up?	- Fine.	You are going to give her her share before we cross the border, right?	Once we cross,.... you can either go with me, go with him.... or go your own way.
that	None of us will see heaven.	Michael could.	Then do everything that you can to see that that happens.	Leave.
that	When he asked for my badge, I thought "how bad can that be"?	It 's only a piece of tin.	I didn' t realize that that badge... was my skin.	It held me together.
aye	Then we Iand in Bermuda no Iater than 2 am.	Correct?	Aye aye, sir.	We refuel.... and Hoop' s piloting the balance of the journey to the Caymans.
her	- Hey, how are you holding up?	- Fine.	You are going to give her her share before we cross the border, right?	Once we cross,.... you can either go with me, go with him.... or go your own way.
that	None of us will see heaven.	Michael could.	Then do everything that you can to see that that happens.	Leave.
ding	Thanks.	My pleasure.	Ding Ding 	- Ding You' re no good, heartbreaker Ding - Well, well.
ding	- Ding You' re no good, heartbreaker Ding - Well, well.	- It' s been a long time, Cork.	- Ding Ding 	Five years, two months and sixteen days.
ding	Ding You had run out of fools Ding	Ding But I was so wrong Ding	Ding Ding 	- Hi.
never	I didn' t know you were out.	When you get tired of Cagney and Lacey, find me.	Ding Don' t you never never say that we' re through Ding	[Jew' s Harp Twanging]
ding	[Jew' s Harp Twanging]	[Twanging Continues]	Ding Ding 	Ding Fast and slow Night and day Ding
her	He worships the ground she walks on.	She' s a proper beauty, Charlie.	Or to give her her correct moniker, Charlie Spencer- Temple.	But she ain' t behaving like a lady.
you	- Here you are.	Enjoy your stay.	Has anyone ever told you you look just like Denzel Washington?	Yes, actually I have heard it once or twice.
you	Where are you?	Get down!	I told you you were going to regret it.	You hit like a bitch!
you	- Here you are.	Enjoy your stay.	Has anyone ever told you you look just like Denzel Washington?	Yes, actually I have heard it once or twice.
you	Where are you?	Get down!	I told you you were going to regret it.	You hit like a bitch!
totally	Please i' il do anything, just dont kill me. "	And then right when he said that, Marty just walked up to him, and - wacked him in the heart with his knife.	The whole thing was just totally totally extreme.	Wait... you want somebody to take you out there to move the body?
food	- Didn' t really bring anything.	- You didn' t bring any food?	- Not food food.	A bit of gum.
you	Right.	Well done.	I told you you' d get through it.	How do you feel?
for	Have your fun, boys.	Have your fun.	'Cause I' m gonna start looking for for a new job.	Hey!
you	I' ve seen them in...	Stop fighting.	The lawyer called to remind you you have to go sign on Monday.	<i>If you want, I' il go with you to the church again.
white	It was like white.	It was white.	It was white white.	White, white, white, white, white!
very	That' s your love line.	That' s your money line.	And that' s looking very very good.	And that' s your life line, going all the way down...
you	I' ve seen them in...	Stop fighting.	The lawyer called to remind you you have to go sign on Monday.	If you want, I' il go with you to the church again.
white	It was like white.	It was white.	It was white white.	White, white, white, white, white!
very	That' s your love line.	That' s your money line.	And that' s looking very very good.	And that' s your life line, going all the way down...
rodriguez	What' s your name?	Javier Rodríguez Rodríguez.	Javier Rodriguez Rodriguez.	You' ve done an excellent job.
you	- Congratulations, - Look I don' t have any,,,	I' m not Iooking for money, Mrs, Goldfarb,	I' m caIling to teII you you' ve already won,	Maylin and Block discovers contestants,
you	When will I have time to hang with you?	Well, so where' s the party?	When I tell you you' re going to jump out of the window.	It won' t come up.
red	That' s red.	I mean that' s a red.	I mean it' s not a red red but it' s...... that' s a red.	That' s a red.
for	As long as I have doubt I can' t say goodbye and move on.	What do you want from me?	I want you to forget the company you work for for thirty seconds..... and tell me if you really believe that Sammy' s faking his condition.	I need to know..... what you honestly believe.
for	As long as I have doubt I can' t say goodbye and move on.	What do you want from me?	I want you to forget the company you work for for thirty seconds..... and tell me if you really believe that Sammy' s faking his condition.	I need to know..... what you honestly believe.
rodriguez	What' s your name?	Javier Rodríguez Rodríguez.	Javier Rodriguez Rodriguez.	You' ve done an excellent job.
for	As long as I have doubt I can' t say goodbye and move on.	What do you want from me?	I want you to forget the company you work for for thirty seconds...... and tell me if you really believe that Sammy' s faking his condition.	I need to know...... what you honestly believe.
that	- To make a speech.	To escape the lnternational Criminal Court.	Security Council was debating whether to bring charges of ethnic cleansing, so he' il come, talk about free elections and reform and pray that that appeases everyone.	So the stakes are high.
aye	What a surprise.	- What are you doing?	- Aye aye!	All right, bruv.
aye	It' s football day!	All right, Pete.	- Aye aye!	- [Cheering]
aye	United away.	- Oi, oi!	- Aye aye!	- All right, mate.
that	- To make a speech.	To escape the lnternational Criminal Court.	Security Council was debating whether to bring charges of ethnic cleansing, so he' il come, talk about free elections and reform... and pray that that appeases everyone.	So the stakes are high.
blerp	Through streets broad and narrow	Crying, "Cockles and mussels...."	One thing I could never stand...... was to see a filthy, dirty old drunkie...... howling away at the filthy songs of his fathers...... and going "blerp blerp" in between...... as it might be a filthy old orchestra in his stinking guts.	I could never stand to see anyone like that, whatever his age.
light	That wiII do very weIl.	Thank you very much, Iadies and gentlemen.	She came towards me...... with the light, like it was the light light of heavenly grace.	And the thing that flashed in me gulliver...... was that I' d like to have her there on the floor...... with the old in- out, real savage.
blerp	Crying cockles	And mussels....	One thing I could never stand...... was to see a filthy, dirty old drunkie...... howling away at the filthy songs of his fathers...... and going "blerp blerp" in between...... as it might be a filthy, old orchestra in his stinking guts.	I could never stand to see anyone like that, whatever his age.
light	That will do very well.	Thank you very much, ladies and gentlemen.	She came towards me...... with the light like it was the light light of heavenly grace.	And the thing that flashed in me gulliver...... was that I' d like to have her there on the floor...... with the old in- out.
black	But I did not snuff it.	If I had snuffed it...... l would not be here to tell what I told have.	I came back to life after a long, black black gap...... of what might have been a million years.	He' s recovered consciousness, Doctor.
sing	Dean Keaton was under indictment a total of 7 times while he was on the force.	In every case the witnesses either reversed their testimony to the grand jury...... or died before they could testify.	When they finally nailed him for fraud he spent five years in Sing Sing.	He killed three prisioners inside.
her	She`s only sober about two hours a day.	lt`s usually from 11: 00 in the morning `til 1: 00 in the afternoon.	lf I gave her her money and her jewels, she`s gonna piss it all away in a year.	Where would you be then?
that	No matter what the Feds or the papers might have said about my car bombing... it was amateur night, you could tell.	Whoever it was, they put the dynamite under the passenger side.	But what they didn`t know, what nobody outside the factory knew... was that that model car was made with a metal plate under the driver`s seat.	lt`s the only thing that saved my life.
sure	# The boy' s no good #	# Well, I' ve finally have found what I been lookin 'for #	# But if they get a chance they' il end it for sure Sure they would #	# Baby, I' ve done all I could # [Sighs]
bora	I was thinking maybe we could go down someplace in the South Pacific.	Kind of money we' re gonna have' s gonna carry us a long way down there.	- If we wanted, we could live in Bora Bora?	- You betcha.
sure	The boy' s no good	Well, I' ve finally have found what I been lookin 'for	But if they get a chance they' il end it for sure Sure they would	Baby, I' ve done all I could [Sighs]
bora	I was thinking maybe we could go down someplace in the South Pacific.	Kind of money we' re gonna have' s gonna carry us a long way down there.	- If we wanted, we could live in Bora Bora?	- You betcha.
chi	You can die too.	It makes no difference to me.	Okay, Chi Chi.	Sobra allí.
chi	- [People Screaming]	- Okay, take him out of here, quick!	Chi Chi!	Chi Chi!
chi	- Okay, take him out of here, quick!	Chi Chi!	Chi Chi!	Get the yeyo.
what	No one' s mentioned marriage, Victor.	All in good time, my dear.	Vermin first, though, what what.	Come on, Phillip.
that	We have to pay Tatarin anyway.	Stupid asshole!	And that that he killed Shisha was very good.	We won' t be suspected.
that	- You do that?	- It' s my job.	- Did you do that that night?	- Well, the guy never came home.
while	- Jackie Brown.	It ain' t like I' m asking you to go somewhere and spend the night.	I just want you to go out for a little while while I work this deal.	So now you' re going to pout!
you	I' m listening to it.	Makes me understand	Louis, man, I' ve been meaning to tell you you' re a little bit uptight.	Street life But you better not get old
ooh	Look around you Look around you	Yeah, yeah	Ooh Ooh- ooh- ooh Ooh- ooh- ooh	You' re not making sense.
there	Do you want some?	Okay.	Look over there there' s some DVDs.	Choose if there' s one you wanna to watch...
you	You like watching me do it, don' t you?	Could I have a cigarette too, please?	I told you you' d start smoking again.	Would you light it for me?
that	She' ýý be with aýý the other kids.	See, Charýie wants aýý the chiýdren raised by everybody, not just the mother, the father.	He says that that' s how we get rid of the ego that parents put in their kids.	Come on.
denial	He said he forgot the entire incident.	- That means he didn' t deny it.	- That' s a non- denial denial.	Wichita, Kansas?
denial	I knew we had enemies, but I didn' t know we were this popular.	Look at this!	My non- denial denial.	Fuck it, let' s stand by the boys.
that	Hello, Winston.	I hear there' s a nonsensical rumor that you' re about to retire.	Please, state that that isn' t the case.	I should be making an official announcement in due course.
ying	It takes time...... for the eye and brain to work together	Come on	Ying Ying	Ying Ying
ying	Come on	Ying Ying	Ying Ying	Hi, can you see now?
ying	Ying Ying	Hi, can you see now?	I' m Ying Ying	Can you really see me?
ying	Take your time and call me if you need anything	Who' s that?	Ying Ying, is that you?	Why are you so quiet?
ying	Are you sure?	We don' t allow any visitors here at night	Where' s Ying Ying?	She went for an operation this morning
ying	I really haven' t seen it	Perhaps you should ask someone else	Ying Ying!	Excuse me, I' d like to talk to her
then	Go play with the troupe!	I can accept you pretending to be blind	But even then then you didn' t isolate yourself here	I just want to help
ying	Mun!	Sis.	Ying Ying, what are you doing here?	I can leave the hospital now
ying	I' m so happy that you can see now,	because this world is really beautiful	Ying Ying...	It' s alright!
ying	Be strong and things will work out for the best	I have to go now	Ying Ying!	Wong Kar Mun, I want to tell you¡ ¤¡¤¡¤
ying	Ying Ying!	Wong Kar Mun, I want to tell you¡ ¤¡¤¡¤	Ying Ying has already...	I know...
ying	I know she' s dead	What are you looking at?	Ying Ying	Can you see her?
ying	At least, I get to see the people I care about	What' s this?	Ying Ying made this for you	What' s written on it?
very	- Describe it.	It' s dark.	It' s very very dark.	And there are no paintings on the wall.
really	I do remember things, but I don' t remember being there.	I don' t remember experiencing those things.	I' m really really trying to understand.	And these...
you	What business is it of yours?	Because I don' t want to have to visit you in prison.	Has anybody ever told you you' re a fine woman?	Lots of men.
baby	Darling.. Relax.. Don`t worry	I will be with you foever	Don`t such strong strength! you will hurt baby baby`s head is out.. so dangouse	Darling
you	Fuck!	What the hell were you thinking?	I told you you couldn' t make the shot.	- What are you doing?
pop	That same old cola	I wanna pop	-- Pop pop I wanna... Shasta -- I' il take it.	I cursed 37 times last week
ryu	Ryu!	Ryu	Ryu Ryu Ryu	Ryu
there	# There' s a party over here #	- Ohh! - # There' s a party over here #	# There' s a party over there There' s a party over here #	Are you ready?
sing	Be a darling and look under the bed for a pair of alligator shoes.	I' ve got to do something about how I look.	I oan' t go to Sing Sing with a green faoe.	Sing Sing?
sing	I' ve got to do something about how I look.	I oan' t go to Sing Sing with a green faoe.	Sing Sing?	It' s a ridioulous name for a prison.
sing	It should be sad seeing kids there, but it isn' t.	They have ribbons in their hair and shine on their shoes.	As I understand it, you' re going to visit somebody at Sing Sing.	You oan tell what kind of person a man thinks you are by the earrings he gives you.
sing	No, I got the key.	Miss Golightly, my neighbour, kindly let me in.	Miss Golightly' s on her way to Sing Sing.	Just visiting, of oourse.
sing	You oan throw me out if you want, but you looked so oosy and your friend had gone, and it was getting oold out there.	And I' d heard people in New York never get to knowtheir neighbours.	Well, how was Sing Sing?	Fine.
out	Gee, damn!	Well, so muoh for South Amerioa.	You' re not out out for queen of the Pampas, anyway.	- Clayton Hotel.
her	And Mili?	She' s somewhere.	Please tell her her boyfriend called.	Excuse me.
runff	Where are they?	There' s nobody here.	Runff runff.	Where are we going?
mow	You can' t join in the middle.	I got him!	What am I asking for? papa oom mow mow.	O. K. papa oom mow mow.
mow	I got him!	What am I asking for? papa oom mow mow.	O. K. papa oom mow mow.	Mike?
mow	Oops.	* A papa oom mow mow mow	* papa oom mow mow	Harvey?
mow	Harvey 'is that you, boy?	* I hear that sound everywhere I go	* papa oom mow mow	* A papa oom mow mow mow
mow	Over here 'you guys.	Stop it.	Sorry. * papa oom mow mow...	Harvey?
toot	The van to Antwerp.	And then you take boat.	Toot toot, America...	Five dollars each.
too	I shall in all my best obey you, madam.	This gentle and unforced accord sits smiling to my heart.	That this too too solid flesh would melt... thaw and resolve itself into a dew.	Or that the Everlasting had not fixed his canon against self- slaughter.
night	I think it sure that I have found the very cause of Hamlet' s lunacy.	Speak on that, that I do long to hear.	My liege, and madam... to expostulate what majesty should be, what duty is... why day is day, night night, and time is time... were nothing but to waste night, day, and time.	Therefore, since brevity is the soul of wit, I will be brief.
that	'and there is so much more to discover, that a mere glance doesn' t reveal...'	I believe in the destiny, and I believe that me and that person we will be each other. mean to find him/ it more crystalline of the mirrors, and the most faithful mirror, so that, when I love that person,	I know that that love will be me returned in a reflex.	And there is one more thing, girl Archer.
the	Your friend is given to the boémia, and he will want to accommodate in a pension.	Ralph enrolled you in his/ her club.	With him, you can go the the whole side.	But it swims here is decent!... it likes to be a lot independent, the girl...
that	What do find of your cousin?	If I understood well, it is his/ her intention what do I marry Isabel?	Well, it is that that sets up, after all.	Don' t you like Isabel?
that	I am not as cold as judge.	Once in a while, something plays me.	As that that you ambition for me.	Because it must be interested the niece of Mrs. Touchett, if...
that	Because it must be interested the niece of Mrs. Touchett, if...	Do I raise interest so a little?	It was not that that wanted say.	If I knew and I appreciated a woman like you.
the	- Does it find my ridiculous trips?	- Not.	Go the the whole side, make everything.	Be happy, be triumphant.
that	Be happy, be triumphant.	- What does with triumphant mean?	- To do that that pleases him/ her.	To do the things that it pleases us for vanity it can be tiresome.
that	You are closer of me that any other human creature, as well as me I am of you.	It will be an undesirable proximity, but it is fruit of our creation.	You don' t like that me to reminds, but I make him/ it willingly, because I have faith that should accept the consequences of our acções, and that that more values in the life it is the honor of the thing in itself.	it tells me a funny book to read.
that	I came to see Pansy.	I remembered that it would be very only.	That that is a little sad.	For that I came, to the...
that	I don' t know because it tells me this.	I don' t know how it can know.	I don' t know except that that I guessed, and I guessed this.	In the bottom, it should thank him/ her. judged that should thank itself.
that	How about that?	And you' re gonna tell me what appeals to women.	I know enough to know that that great big dumb cowboy crap of yours... don' t appeal to nobody except every Jacky on 42nd Street!	That' s faggot stuff!
her	Hey, come on.	You should see the Countess de Clairefons in Paris.	And give her her husband' s papers.	It will mean a lot to her.
blah	- You know what I do when I feel completely unoriginal?	- What?	# La, blah, blah Blah, la, la #	I make a noise or I do something that no one has ever done before.
the	Go to Africa.	Help people.	Do you know a band called "The The"?	Pardon?
you	Everyone is forever plaguing me to speak further.	Why?	What good is it to tell you you are in my every thought from the time I wake?	What good can come from my saying I - I sometimes cannot think clearly, or do my work properly?
you	It is the cause.	It is the cause, my soul,	Let me not name it to you you chaste stars!	It is the cause.
you	Everyone is forever plaguing me to speak further.	Why?	What good is it to tell you you are in my every thought from the time I wake?	What good can come from my saying l- I sometimes cannot think clearly, or do my work properly?
the	Go to Africa.	Help people.	Do you know a band called "The The"?	Pardon?
that	You' re a delivery service.	That' s just the beginning of it, because I would bring the tire... and change it, I' il put the tire on your car while you' re mowing the lawn.	Or anything else that that you want to do.	And we' d paint the bus a bright red because that would give the company... its own individual identity and make it memorable.
bam	Frankie would say, show me a fighter who' s nothing but heart, and i' il show you a man waiting for a beating.	Think i' ve only ever met one fighter who' s all heart.	My name is Dangerous Dillard fighting flipo bam bam... out of Broward county Texas.	Dangerous showed up a couple years back, it comes to everything to LA with errilville,... new boyfriend, apparently errilville got lost, and ended up back in Texas.
good	I appreciate any help i can get.	What you wanna do is take it to the mat see, he' s constantly moving, moving towards you, moving around ya, and moving away from ya.	Alright, now you dont want to hit him when he' s coming toward ya cause what he' s gonna do is just push you back and is gonna smuggle your punches take you by , so you watch him real carefully, keep rotating, that keeps your head moving and keep one shoulder back so you' re always ready to fire power shot, alright now go ahead now, good good, keep rotating, keep moving, that' s it, good good, keep that chin tucked in, come around keep moving, keep moving, good... yeah?	Give it a few shots, tuck that chin in, tuck that chin in, that' s good, that' s good now you get this down we' il put you on a speed bag?
stop	I want a trainer, i dont want charity, and i dont want favors,	if your not interested than i got more celebrating to do.	Stop stop stop, god damnit stop.	What the hell are you doing?
mmm	If i take you on...	I' il promise I' il work so hard.	God this is a mistake already. mmm mmm i' m listening boss.	If i take you on, you dont say anything, you dont question me, dont ask why, you dont say nigger something maybe yes frankie and i' m gonna try to forget the fact that your a girl.
good	Now what is the rule?	Protect myself at all times.	Good good.	You gave me away how is that protecting me?
that	You know as well as I do.	The young girls might think it has something to do with love.	That that' s the way for a woman to behave.	- There, I' ve said what I have to sa y.
you	- Jeanne, you' re jealous.	- So what?	When I first met you you had dreams and ambitions, you wanted to write a novel, and you ended up cataloguing old books in a library.	The dust has made you acid.
what	- You do?	- What?	What what means?	Now listen to me.
about	Véronique Passavant on July 17th 1920	Lady, I write to you from the bar of Petit Louis, who told me about you.	I have to tell about about a meeting I have had which gave me a fright.	I was on my way to the factory of Bastoche because I was sad.
mathilde	Manech Loves Mathilde	Manech Loves Mathilde	Manech Loves Mathilde Mathilde Loves Manech	Manech Loves Mathilde
bum	And we don' t have any music.	Well, we' il make some.	Bum bum	Bum bum bum
bum	Well, we' il make some.	Bum bum	Bum bum bum	Bum
bum	Bum bum bum	Bum	Bum bum	Bum bum bum bum bum.
ally	Ooh bop sha bam, shi bimmy bop	- Oh bop sha bam, shi bimmy bop - You say it!	- Ally ally ally ooh - Ally ally ally ooh	- Olly olly olly ooh - Olly olly olly ooh
olly	- Oh bop sha bam, shi bimmy bop - You say it!	- Ally ally ally ooh - Ally ally ally ooh	- Olly olly olly ooh - Olly olly olly ooh	- Whooly ooh - Whooly ooh
bye	You just watch for the flying lead.	Nicotine is my problem!	Bye bye!	That was today' s lesson.
that	You know as well as I do.	The young girls might think it has something to do with love.	That that' s the way for a woman to behave.	- There, I' ve said what I have to say.
hmm	Lorraine Lawson	Is everything okay?	Hmm hmm.	What a day...
her	Workin 'the bag, boss.	Not your boss... and that bag' s working you.	Give her her money back.	You sure?
because	- Yeah	Yes, you are And why are you doing that?	Because because we' re going to make a film	What film are we going to make on my couch?
you	If one of you is in one hole and the other is in the other hole then you meet in the middle	- There' s just a Iayer of skin between you - Is that so, you fuck?	You you haven' t even held a girl' s hand before	You know nothing about it Listen
cheers	Let' s do it!	Cheers	Cheers Cheers for us	Three Iosers sitting here who have nowhere else to go, so we hang out with two other Iosers
ambulance	HeIlo	HeIlo	Ambulance ambulance	And you' re a puppy What' s your name?
open	That' s nice Are you horny?	- Geko?	- Open open open wide	Even more As wide as you can
dad	What, does he scream Iike that when he has nightmares?	I should go and Iook	Dad Dad!	Wake up Dad!
okay	That' s fine Thanks	Over here as weII	Dad It' s okay okay	Dad!
that	You' re a delivery service.	Tha\ x9Ds just the beginning of it, because I would bring the tire...... and change it, I' il put the tire on your car while you' re mowing the lawn.	Or anything else that that you want to do.	And we' d paint the bus a bright red because that would give the company...... its own individual identity and make it memorable.
better	You cannot speak but kiss me in my husband' s absence	Poor fool, he makes me laugh	Time I tried to get a better better half	Poor fool, he doesn' t know
you	Everyone is forever plaguing me to speak further.	Why?	What good is it to tell you you are in my every thought from the time I wake?	What good can come from my saying I- I sometimes cannot think clearly, or do my work properly?
you	Yeah, OK.	Of course.	Did I ever tell you you' re an angel?	No.
that	Are you jerking off?	Don' t call me Seppi.	You do know that that' s not the answer.	I don' t care.
you	- I am so proud of you.	- Congratulations.	- I told you you could do it.	- Hey, there' s punch in the corner.
had	Well, that, uh... that was one aspect of what would become trivial... in the... area of the ongoing argument between Marion and Ted.	I mean, Marion said that Ted was drunk, although in his view, he wasn' t.	Marion, while not drunk, certainly had had more to drink than she was accustomed to.	Besides, Tommy had not been drinking.
and	It was clear that they were known from before the war.	Soon... we removed them outside the trench.	- Excrement. - and and Cáilate.	- Excrement.
that	- Excrement.	- Cáilate!	September of 1914, kl with facility raises 70 and that that no longer was so in form as before.	But that morning, in January of the 17 Manech was alive?
that	As fuel the reason?	A mystery.	And that that happened through all together.	And of a day for another one, they were not possible nor to be seen.
that	Be going to help him.	Oh if!	Let us suppose that that person of above you are...... then Mr. Rouvières and I would have permission no?	If I thought like you nonserious Official.
mathilde	Manech But Mathilde	Mathilde But Manech	Manech But Mathilde Mathilde But Manech	Manech But Mathilde
you	See, the problem is she won' t give me the time of day.	Well, why don' t I introduce you guys?	What if I told you you were the coolest girl ever?	Jay, I like this girl.
that	Be some good, clean fun, don' t you think?	Yeah, he deserves it, doesn' t he?	If there' s one thing that can' t be argued, it' s that that fat freak deserves whatever he' s got coming to him.	Dude, what' d I tell you?
bum	And we don' t have any music.	Well, we' il make some.	# Bum bum #	# Bum bum bum #
bum	Well, we' il make some.	# Bum bum #	# Bum bum bum #	# Bum #
bum	# Bum bum bum #	# Bum #	# Bum bum #	# Bum bum bum bum bum. #
ally	# Hey, band, you feeling all right?! #	# Ooh bop sha bam, shi bimmy bop #	- # Oh bop sha bam, shi bimmy bop # - You say it! - # Ally ally ally ooh # - # Ally ally ally ooh #	- # Olly olly olly ooh # - # Olly olly olly ooh #
olly	# Ooh bop sha bam, shi bimmy bop #	- # Oh bop sha bam, shi bimmy bop # - You say it! - # Ally ally ally ooh # - # Ally ally ally ooh #	- # Olly olly olly ooh # - # Olly olly olly ooh #	- # Whooly ooh # - # Whooly ooh #
you	- Quite good.	- Additional advantages Are: as they will shoot then I will be me... rich!	There now, Kenny, I saw ostatni once when you you did on chamber pot the lines of cocaine.	It one should will grow, guy.
now	I in life did not it be to bore so.	By first month	I bought how mad, there now now... nothing.	I will get skrêta?
him	I thought really, That you are retarded.	You are equally good how this Corky, and he be handicapped really.	He if would was Oscar for delayed in development, you would clear him him from before nose how bang - cyk - cyk.	Thanks, to hear me this pleasantly.
was	You - invent Often?	- What means this often?	It - rearwards it, in order to you were called was was liar?	They - call me Variously.
will	I do not it claim that I do not it cry, there now I in lap time laugh.	Know, what stupid is taking on seriously all.	I besides know, that then I will will can to weep out in good order.	It sounds reasonably.
was	What do place and what you do here?	We call then Przepaœci¹ Kiernana.	Nobody knows what she it is, it because she one may not was was study.	Before matter be becomes decided at court it I was engaged was to watch,
yes	Yeah?	- Do you agree?	- Yes yes.	It' s ok.
thing	- You know what thing.	- No, I don' t know what thing.	The thing thing.	Now, let' s see, there are any number of things, um... in an afternoon full of all sorts of things, so I, um...
bridge	I mean, you see, if I stay with you tonight, well, it' s definitely the end of something... important with someone.	Um, which has probably ended already, - but perhaps...	- Bridge, Bridge Bridge, Bridge.	Doesn' t everyone deserve a second chance?
think	But definitely not me. - # Think - # Think	# Think about what you' re trying to do to me	- # Think - # Think think	# Let your mind go...
think	- It is a fertility- snake bowl.	- Ooh.	- Jed gave it to me. - # Think think - # Let your mind go...	How romantic.
ooh	# We' il be rocking 'till the sun goes down	# I believe in a thing called love	# Oooh- ooh ooh...	- Fuck off!
you	- I lost my fucking job today.	- Get the fuck out of here.	I told you you need to go by and see Ruby so she could set you up.	Mad money up in there.
bye	Let' em go.	I' m gonna miss her, but here we are.	Bye bye.	- Hi, guys.
our	- It isn' t true.	It was intercepted from their staff headquarters.	What do they have to do, dangle his body in front our our men?	They' re lying.
cowardly	- Leave me alone!	- So you don' t want to see him now, eh?	You' re a cowardly custard... cowardly, cowardly custard, cowardly cowardly custard	Well, I' il just have to do it myself, then
nag	(Marina chuckles)	# CABARET VOLTAlRE:	Nag Nag Nag	# Nag, nag, nag
cowardy	So you don' t want to see him now, eh?	You' re a cowardy custard.	Cowardy cowardy custard.	I' il just have to do it myself, then.
ling	Very good.	Mr. Darko.	"Ling Ling finds a wallet on the ground filled with money.	She takes the wallet to the address on the driver' s license but keeps the money inside the wallet. "
ling	The Life Line is divided that way.	Life isn' t that simple.	I mean, who cares if Ling Ling returns the wallet and keeps the money?	It has nothing to do with either fear or love.
that	Doesn' t sound very exciting, does it?	But it is.	Do you think that you could begin to imagine... that that is how you will come to feel with Captain Corelli?	You must act honourably... with respect to Mandras and his mother.
that	But he was running around in the middle of winter with no shirt.	Everyone thought he was going to freeze to death.	We think it' s reasonable for us to assume that that' s what happened.	Very, v- very reasonable, except for one thing.
our	- It isn' t true.	It was intercepted from their staff headquarters.	What do they have to do, dangle his body in front our our men?	They' re lying.
that	Doesn' t sound very exciting, does it?	But it is.	Do you think that you could begin to imagine... that that is how you will come to feel with Captain Corelli?	You must act honourably... with respect to Mandras and his mother.
that	New fella.	There you go.	It' s wrecks like that that sells papers.	Oh, Jack knows his readers.
that	Someone rubs you the wrong way, you can’ t explain why?	You kind of rub me that way.	Not that that makes you Luke.	What I want to know is, what game are you running?
that	Joey!	Quick, come look!	There’ s no way that that car was driven onto this beach.	- There’ s no access.
long	This story started many thousand of years ago.	But it was all over in just 7 days.	All that long long time ago, none of the things we can see now.	The sun, the moon, the stars, the earth, animals and plants.
very	No, no, no...	Let him answer.	At the centre of the earth. where it is very very hot.	That' s where children goes, they' re liar, they don' t go there just for a few days.
very	Oh, you' re not missing out anything.	You' re much better at home...	With your mummy and daddy who love you very very much.	And the intruder?
two	Love you <i>Why I love you</ i>	<i>One</ i> The way you hold my hand	Two Two Your lauqhinq eyes	Three Three The way you understand
three	<i>One</ i> The way you hold my hand	Two Two Your lauqhinq eyes	Three Three The way you understand	Four Four Your secret sides
four	Two Two Your lauqhinq eyes	Three Three The way you understand	Four Four Your secret sides	They' re all part
five	Of 1 6 reasons	Why I love you	Five Five The way you comb your hair	Six Six Your freckled nose
six	Why I love you	Five Five The way you comb your hair	Six Six Your freckled nose	Seven Seven The way you say you care
seven	Five Five The way you comb your hair	Six Six Your freckled nose	Seven Seven The way you say you care	Eiqht Eiqht Your crazy clothes
eiqht	Six Six Your freckled nose	Seven Seven The way you say you care	Eiqht Eiqht Your crazy clothes	That' s just half of 1 6 reasons
you	I don' t want to die.	No one wants to die.	Who told you you' re going to die?	It' s done!
you	You guys have met my brother Ron, right?	I remember you.	Remember, the last time I saw you you were around eleven, right?	Yeah.
ray	- All right?	Yo, Coach.	Kofi and Ray Ray want to play.	Is that Kofi Evans and...
ray	She said they couldn' t play ball until they do these book reports.	- Kofi ain' t doin 'shit.	- Ray Ray neither.	They' re like...
ray	He' s out!	- Strike!	- It' s all right, Ray Ray.	Strike!
ray	Kekambas!	Damn, Miles, you don' t even know how to throw the ball!	Shut up, Ray Ray.	At least he ran after it when it went by.
ray	You mad at me?	Jamal, the other coach --	'Cause I' m sorry about pushing Ray Ray.	I just want to play.
ray	Last licks.	We pull this out, we goin 'to the' ship.	Leading off, we' ve got Andre, we' ve got Ray Ray, we' ve got Clarence.	After that, it' s you, Kofi, and then we' ve got Jefferson.
ray	Strike three!	Yeah, yeah, yeah.	Nice job, Ray Ray.	- Damn!
ray	Good luck today.	Thank you.	- Andre, Ray Ray.	- What' s up, Coach?
ling	Very good.	Mr Darko.	"Ling Ling finds a wallet filled with money.	"She takes it to the address on the driver' s licence but keeps the money."
ling	Well, life isn' t that simple.	I mean...	Who cares if Ling Ling keeps the money?	It has nothing to do with fear or love.
spectacular	- We were just upstairs rehearsing a play.	- What?	A play, something very modern called Spectacular Spectacular.	- And it' s set in Switzerland.
spectacular	- Satine.	- They would dress me in the Argentinean' s best suit... and pass me off as a famous English writer.	Once Satine heard my modern poetry, she would be astounded... and insist to Zidler that I write Spectacular Spectacular.	The only problem was, I kept hearing my father' s voice in my head.
they	And I kicked off the moss	Well, some of these verses	Well, they they got me quite cross	But the sun' s been kind
spectacular	The world	That' s very beautiful.	It' s from Spectacular Spectacular.	Suddenly, with you here,
spectacular	- It will be...	- [Glissando]	Spectacular Spectacular!	No words in the vernacular
spectacular	So exciting, the audience will stomp and cheer	So delighting it will run for 50 years	Spectacular Spectacular No words in the vernacular	Can describe this great event You' il be dumb with wonderment
you	We could be heroes	Just for one day	You You will be mean	No, I won' t.
that	Sorry.	I' m sorry, Lucy in the sky.	You know... critics and fools said that that song... had some mysterious meaning, but John always said... it came from a picture his son Julian drew... of his friend Lucy O' Connell.	So I made a good choice?
duran	They are Sparkle Motion.	(MUSlC:	"N0T0Rl0US" BY DURAN DURAN)	# No- No- Notorious
hungry	(DONNlE) They didn' t buy me what I wanted for Christmas.	What did you want for Christmas that year?	Hungry Hungry Hippos.	How did you feel, being denied these Hungry Hungry Hippos?
hungry	What did you want for Christmas that year?	Hungry Hungry Hippos.	How did you feel, being denied these Hungry Hungry Hippos?	- Regret.
hip	- Three cheers for North Carolina!	- All right, - Three cheers for the South!	Hip hip hurrah!	Hip hip hurrah!
hip	- All right, - Three cheers for the South!	Hip hip hurrah!	Hip hip hurrah!	Hip hip hurrah!
hip	Hip hip hurrah!	Hip hip hurrah!	Hip hip hurrah!	Inman, It belongs to Inman,
trillion	And that' s surrounded by the outer core, and that is liquid.	Yes, but, most importantly, this liquid is constantly spinning in one direction.	So a trillion trillion tons of hot metal spinning at a thousand miles an hour, so...	Right, so Physics 101 -- hot metal moving fast makes an electromagnetic field.
the	Love Me If You Dare	I like this game very much.	Housing game, when the the banker lost.	I like bead game, I win; Jumping game is for fools.
long	A beautiful friend.	In fact, I made a mistake.	This game started long long ago.	It started with a sick word.
had	Aurelie Miller, a taint.	To her there' s only two things:	She had had sex with the teacher of PE,	And she had awful earrings.
whoa	- All right, up on the table, right now!	- Mikey:	Whoa, whoa whoa --	Wait a second.
the	Love Me If You Dare	I like this game very much.	Housing game, when the the banker lost.	I like bead game, I win; Jumping game is for fools.
long	A beautiful friend.	In fact, I made a mistake.	This game started long long ago.	It started with a sick word.
had	Aurelie Miller, a taint.	To her there' s only two things:	She had had sex with the teacher of PE,	And she had awful earrings.
that	- whose lawyers fell asleep during cross- examination.	- I' m not a lawyer.	And the Texas Court of Criminal Appeals ruled that that was not... that was not a basis for a retrial.	Governor, that' s just a flawed, insane, crazy system.
wise	Yeah.	Yearning will only make it better.	Thank you for your words, your wise wise words.	You' re welcome.
that	I don' t love you anymore.	I' m sorry, Bud.	I' m sorry that that happened.	- You' re not sorry.
truly	Truth is, he was pretty incredible.	(¶ The Fags:	Truly Truly)	¶ You' ve got a way of spinning ¶ I guess you' d call it art ¶ Doesn' t matter what the outcome is ¶ I' m sure you played your part ¶ Well, you come on like an earthquake ¶ Even though you float on through ¶ Give me just a moment' s notice ¶ I' il make due ¶ Only a fool would not believe it ¶ Only a blind man couldn' t see ¶ If you' re concerned about my heart ¶ Truly truly ¶ I' ve seen this movie a thousand times ¶ I won' t give the ending away ¶ I' ve bought a ticket so I' m entitled to stay ¶ I' ve seen this movie a thousand times ¶ And I' m not giving the ending away ¶ I' ve bought a ticket so I' m entitled to stay
truly	(¶ The Fags:	Truly Truly)	¶ You' ve got a way of spinning ¶ I guess you' d call it art ¶ Doesn' t matter what the outcome is ¶ I' m sure you played your part ¶ Well, you come on like an earthquake ¶ Even though you float on through ¶ Give me just a moment' s notice ¶ I' il make due ¶ Only a fool would not believe it ¶ Only a blind man couldn' t see ¶ If you' re concerned about my heart ¶ Truly truly ¶ I' ve seen this movie a thousand times ¶ I won' t give the ending away ¶ I' ve bought a ticket so I' m entitled to stay ¶ I' ve seen this movie a thousand times ¶ And I' m not giving the ending away ¶ I' ve bought a ticket so I' m entitled to stay	¶ Truly truly ¶ Yeah, truly truly ¶ Truly truly ¶ Yeah, truly truly ¶ Truly truly ¶ Yeah, truly truly ¶ Truly truly ¶ Yeah, truly truly ¶
truly	Truly Truly)	¶ You' ve got a way of spinning ¶ I guess you' d call it art ¶ Doesn' t matter what the outcome is ¶ I' m sure you played your part ¶ Well, you come on like an earthquake ¶ Even though you float on through ¶ Give me just a moment' s notice ¶ I' il make due ¶ Only a fool would not believe it ¶ Only a blind man couldn' t see ¶ If you' re concerned about my heart ¶ Truly truly ¶ I' ve seen this movie a thousand times ¶ I won' t give the ending away ¶ I' ve bought a ticket so I' m entitled to stay ¶ I' ve seen this movie a thousand times ¶ And I' m not giving the ending away ¶ I' ve bought a ticket so I' m entitled to stay	¶ Truly truly ¶ Yeah, truly truly ¶ Truly truly ¶ Yeah, truly truly ¶ Truly truly ¶ Yeah, truly truly ¶ Truly truly ¶ Yeah, truly truly ¶	Can you believe this?
had	If they did, nothing came out.	What is it?	If Mom had had one of these, we wouldn' t be here.	They arrange it all.
the	I' m trying to organize a prison break.	I' m looking for like, an accomplice.	We would have to first get out of this bar, then this hotel, the the city, and the country.	Are you in or out?
that	What you will want, I am lost.	< just i> It' s a carpet.	It is not of that that I speak.	<i>What do you speak? </ i>
that	Hello.	she is more close to your age.	You can speak of that that you have joint, as to grow in the years 50.	Maybe she has beloved the movies that you made in the years 70, when did you make more movies?
that	This could all be a story.	None of this could be true.	But the note that that kid wrote...... had an 8 on it.	And that' s what this outfit called themselves.
hip	- All right.	- Three cheers for the South!	Hip hip hurrah!	Hip hip hurrah!
hip	- Three cheers for the South!	Hip hip hurrah!	Hip hip hurrah!	Hip hip hurrah!
hip	Hip hip hurrah!	Hip hip hurrah!	Hip hip hurrah!	Inman.
that	Nothing but lumber and steel.	Now, I' m up there at Cranberry Lake with Michael and Tony, and I' m trying to explain a little of my philosophy of life in the woods.	A couple of fellas up from Grand Forks desperate to kill something before the weekend is over, and I' m trying to explain that that' s not really what hunting' s all about.	Is this a story that goes someplace, or is this "Dewey' s Meaning of Life, Part 7"?
truly	Truth is, he was pretty incredible.	(The Fags:	Truly Truly)	You' ve got a way of spinning
truly	Only a blind man couldn' t see	If you' re concerned about my heart	Truly truly	I' ve seen this movie a thousand times
truly	And I' m not giving the ending away	I' ve bought a ticket so I' m entitled to stay	Truly truly	Yeah, truly truly
truly	I' ve bought a ticket so I' m entitled to stay	Truly truly	Yeah, truly truly	Truly truly
truly	Truly truly	Yeah, truly truly	Truly truly	Yeah, truly truly
truly	Yeah, truly truly	Truly truly	Yeah, truly truly	Truly truly
truly	Truly truly	Yeah, truly truly	Truly truly	Yeah, truly truly
truly	Yeah, truly truly	Truly truly	Yeah, truly truly	Truly truly
truly	Truly truly	Yeah, truly truly	Truly truly	Yeah, truly truly
truly	Yeah, truly truly	Truly truly	Yeah, truly truly	Roses?
that	The little guy?	Could we not all look at once, please?	I have it on reliable sources that that' s Hugh Elder.	You' re kidding.
had	It said that one day he would be murdered by a son that i gave to him.	But he was killed by a gang of bandits, at a crossroads.	I must tell you that laius had had the child taken, and his feet tied up, then he had him thrown off a mountain, therefore he died.	Judge then if prophecies predict the future.
proud	Oh, God!	My nose, sir, is enormous!	Cretinous moron a man ought to be proud proud of such an appendix.	A great nose may be an index of a great soul - kind, endowed with liberality and courage...
too	"Put that in a lottery for noses and it' il be first prize."	And finally, with sighs and cries... in language deeply felt:	"O that this too too..." "solid nose would melt."	That is what you could have said or had an ounce of wit in your head.
you	I' m Michael Newman.	Yeah.	I told you you' d know me.	I' ve been tracking you for a long time.
boring	When I was in New York there was this kid who came up to me with this soccer ball	He asked me if I knew who made that ball	Sounds boring boring!	It' s not boring
exciting	What do you wanna do in New York?	Study	That' s exciting exciting!	It really is
marianela	She' s the love of my life.	By the way, what' s your name?	"Marianela Marianela	"Marianela
marianela	Is there a problem?	No problem.	"Marianela Marianela	"Marianela"
zsa	You got that from me.	- Where' s your pate?	- At Zsa Zsa Gabor' s house.	I' m going to the store, because you have nothing.
what	- You jealous?	You wanted to know what it was like.	What what was like?	The great lesson of being close to death.
knock	Set his wife on fire, then fatallyshot himself.	Neighbors ofthe slain woman expressedshock andsorrow today as --	Knock knock.	I t was open.
afternight	And, boy, I did it.	I drank, and I snorted...... and I drank and snorted and drank and snorted.	And I did this day after day afternight afternight.	I didn' t care about th e consequences.
that	I had that ask to some ten	Persons where did you live for It uncover for where had you changed.	I found that that signified that...	Jack, I.
you	I go stayed with the infants this of of and...	Free time.	Não I have the certainty itself you You feel very.	You know yourself that I feel...
that	Hundreds of zeros that diminish more and more...	It is like see a rabbit It escape from a trap.	I find that that is entertainment Of high class.	Without no guarantee.
that	- It is funny, não is?	Husbands... never I saw no of them to dance With its woman.	- By that you find that that happens, Jack?	- Still não equal for think...
you	They known by every time I escaped for come here.	Probably you deserve.	I go you you say...	The truth is that...
you	As the woman of him me it said that he would like...	I would stay happy in do him.	I go you you say a thing...	I know where the mountain Brokeback stayed.
they	Thus through the air, the flame catch, and everything In the surroundings will melt.	But the bad news is that it grenades are...	Thus I adapted they they on distance Can explode.	I yet must say that they free old are.
that	That I also yet a little bit human am.	We have our war till Copenhagens brought...	And it is not that that european antisemiten That do not earn.	If we do not learn neat as they to do We will never defeat they also.
that	Weltrusten.	That Americas drank.	Think you that that Were of the ClA?	Would can.
yes	Can you hear me?	Can they me hear?	- Yes yes.	Hey, talk once against me.
there	- For always?	Five targets live yet.	Thus there there yet five must be killed.	In the beginning, you had it trouble with.
done	And I felt everybody me Away at the same time me with pray.	You are for which I prayers have.	What you you have have done done for us.	You have the furrow your daughter Done but also for us.
that	The country that your parents founded And where you born are.	You have killed they for Munich For the future, and for peace.	There is no peace at the end of this What you also praised, you know that that so is.	This is know what I.
you	I' m...	Millan.	I told you you can' t call right now!	We' re waiting for drummers and bass players to call.
did	At least did you spend it on Jesse?	- Huh?	Did did you buy her some clothes?	- Get out of my house.
tin	- And Judy and her daughter Liza next week.	No, no.	You' re interviewing Rin Tin Tin!	I' il talk to Mr. Paley.
that	- Agreed?	- The woman is not a Communist spy.	Joe McCarthy said that they have a spy in the Pentagon...... that spy has gotten into the code room...... and that that spy is Annie Lee Moss.	I' ve got New York Times reports.
knock	Why do you tell me all this?	Because we are alike.	Knock Knock, madam.	Would you by chance have any food?
they	Thus through the air, the flame catch, and everything In the surroundings will melt.	But the bad news is that it grenades are...	Thus I adapted they they on distance Can explode.	I yet must say that they free old are.
that	That I also yet a little bit human am.	We have our war till Copenhagens brought...	And it is not that that european antisemiten That do not earn.	If we do not learn neat as they to do We will never defeat they also.
that	Weltrusten.	That Americas drank.	Think you that that Were of the ClA?	Would can.
yes	Can you hear me?	Can they me hear?	- Yes yes.	Hey, talk once against me.
there	- For always?	Five targets live yet.	Thus there there yet five must be killed.	In the beginning, you had it trouble with.
done	And I felt everybody me Away at the same time me with pray.	You are for which I prayers have.	What you you have have done done for us.	You have the furrow your daughter Done but also for us.
that	The country that your parents founded And where you born are.	You have killed they for Munich For the future, and for peace.	There is no peace at the end of this What you also praised, you know that that so is.	This is know what I.
there	I' m sure there are people in the other cars	Still, it' s a bit creepy	See, look over there there' s someone	Who is in there?
that	This is an enormous invasion.	The last news of the airport...	Is that that broken loose is the hell.	We learnt that all Nine hostages safe are.
you	It is not fast.	We have the best hospital In whole the world.	When you you born was became Father somewhere else.	I was only.
have	I can bring you no relief before three days.	And if the Germans do attack tonight or tommorow as its suggested they would.	- We' iljust have have to deal with them.	- Yes sir!
that	So there' s a history of mental illness in your family?	I suppose.	Sir, if you saw someone eating insects...... on a street corner, would you say that that person is mentally ill?	- Probably, yes.
that	It' s an inversion of 3 p. m., the miracle hour...... which is traditionally accepted as the hour of Christ' s death.	I thought I smelled something burning.	<i>Only later did I connect it... </ i> <i>... and I remembered that that same</ i> <i>smell of something burning... </ i> <i>... had been perceived by Emily. </ i>	Holy Mary, mother of God, pray for us sinners, now and...
you	- How did you get in?	- The stairs from the street.	I told you you' d come around, but this is ahead of schedule.	Won' t you sit down?
that	It didn' t leave for a couple weeks, so I bought this Eurail pass.	You know what' s the worst thing about somebody breaking up with you?	It' s when you remember how little you thought about...... the people you broke up with, and you realize...... that that is how little they' re thinking about you.	You' d like to think you' re both in pain...... but really, they' re just, "Hey, I' m glad you' re gone."
you	So who just got pushed to the frontline on that one?	Women say they hate it if you' re all protective.	But if it suits them, then they' il tell you you' re being unmanly.	You know what?
bye	Okay.	Thanks.	Bye bye.	Lend me a coin for the phone?
you	You' re finished	You bitch Slut Tramp	Fuck you You bitch	Where does all this energy come from?
that	It didn' t leave for a couple weeks, so I bought this Eurail pass.	You know what' s the worst thing about somebody breaking up with you?	It' s when you remember how little you thought about...... the people you broke up with, and you realize...... that that is how little they' re thinking about you.	You' d like to think you' re both in pain...... but really, they' re just, "Hey, I' m glad you' re gone."
you	So who just got pushed to the frontline on that one?	Women say they hate it if you' re all protective.	But if it suits them, then they' il tell you you' re being unmanly.	You know what?
that	My father' s dead.	He left it to me.	We were told that that was the summer camp of Senator Iselin.	Johnny stays there sometimes, sir, when he gets too drunk for Mother to allow him to be seen in Washington.
the	- He wants to see me tonight.	- We`ve got a busy night.	The the family of a kid who got his fingers torn off is out there.	- What is there about a fuII moon?
karol	The widow of a French composer who died last year, Julie Vignon.	Steven Killian, English citizen, barman on the ferry.	A businessman from Poland, Karol Karol.	Dominique Vidal, French citizen.
never	Fancy gloves, oh	Wears old Macheath, babe	So there' s never Never a trace of red	Now on the sidewalk uh- huh, uh- huh
karol	The widow of a French composer who died last year, Julie Vignon.	Steven Killian, English citizen, barman on the ferry.	A businessman from Poland, Karol Karol.	Dominique Vidal, French citizen.
dada	Considering the merger, I thought you should get this at home:	Arcamax production lines running at 29% despite all efforts.	Spot- checks on dada dada....	Speaking of the merger, are you rich and famous yet?
sex	You saw this woman alone.	You had wine, a back rub, you kissed.	And then this non- sex sex thing.	You took off her panties.
the	Irfan!	When the king of wind fell upon mother, the sky separated from the earth.	The the suns...	Don' t cry, Daca.
that	Of course, you are my daughter!	Why?	I do not like that that my life is read	Is handbook there too?
had	Iors of the explosion bomb placed. under its car	This one was itinerant garlic salesman	It had had to see. apparently with the traffic of drug	The attack could have been terrible.
any	When you cry then. think of me	When you want. to remove me life	I do not want any any more	With nothing.
that	My last confession goes up far	The introduction is a little long, in fact	I believe that that will be enough	No the confession since when?
that	A little piece of Poland A little piece of France	A little piece of Portugal And Austria perchance	A little slice of Turkey And all that that entails	Und then a piece of England Scotland lreland and Wales
sweetheart	Will you stop?	How long can Anna keep him there?	Sweetheart Sweetheart	Sweetheart
that	With all due respect... it seems that whenever you ask me a question, you already have the answer.	Do you know where the books are?	No, but I' ve faith that that tower contains something other than air.	Did you see the little door the librarian closed as we came in?
you	- I didn' t ask you to replace it.	- It was shot.	I didn' t tell you you could do it, and you can' t do unauthorised work.	Suddenly you' re a mechanic?
you	Biscuits.	Under the cupboard.	I told you you' d taken them.	You see, it works.
lover	Damn, he' s in there.	Just like that.	Mr. Lover Lover.	We ought to nail his ass right now.
for	I believe I' ve already answered that question.	I' m proud of what we' ve achieved as a species...... and as a civilization.	I would hate to see everything we stand for...... all that we have fought for for a thousand generations...... all that God has blessed us with...... betrayed...... in the final hour because we sent a representative who did not put our...... most cherished beliefs first.	Thank you.
solomon	I put you in my store.	My salesman.	My fucking representation of Solomon Solomon Electronic!	The Quiz Kid Donnie Smith from the game show!
that	Want to make a deal with me?	What I just said... people afraid to say things... no guts to say the things that are real or something... to not do that.	To not do that that maybe we' ve done before.	Let' s make a deal.
and	I don' t want to talk about my son.	I can' t.	Apart from apologizing, Nina and and I wantyou to come back.	Rosa' s sick.
and	I don' t want to talk about my son.	I can' t.	Apart from apologizing, Nina and and I want you to come back.	Rosa' s sick.
you	- No, Cherie.	Whatever.	Has anyone told you you could be a model?	Really?
well	- Can I talk to you for a moment?	- What?	Well well, the drapes are dirty.	What?
there	I have no friends, haven' t you understood, not one!	Mum hasn' t understood anything, anyway.	Hey, there there...	'Cause she can' t understand these things...
you	- I can' t, it' s impossible.	But, do I know him?	- If I told you you' d be totally...	- Are you going to meet again?
that	Lewis has his own cell, as would Tony, and Sheriff if he goes back.	That' s really good.	And the other thing I think you' ve overlooked is that that building' s not up to code.	- Oh, Jesus.
boom	But nobody knew how crazy.	Her room smelled of dead flowers and cat piss.	Boom boom.	Chicka- boom!
something	What actor?	Oh, it has an A in it...... it' s, oh, you know...	Something something something he has	Three names....
benefits	Thank you.	Thanks for lunch... l really enjoyed this.	Benefits, benefits, we want benefits Benefits, benefits, we want benefits	Benefits, benefits, we want benefits Benefits, benefits, we want benefits
benefits	Thanks for lunch... l really enjoyed this.	Benefits, benefits, we want benefits Benefits, benefits, we want benefits	Benefits, benefits, we want benefits Benefits, benefits, we want benefits	You know, there are people in real need in there.
timmy	Here.	Hey, did anyone watch Leno last night?	Timmy, Oh Timmy Timmy come over and sit on Grandma' s lap Timmy, Timmy, what?	Timmy.
that	You show me Regan' s double...... same face, same voice, everything...... and I' d know it wasn' t Regan.	I' d know in my gut.	I' m telling you that that thing upstairs isn' t my daughter.	I want you to tell me that you know for a fact...... there' s nothing wrong with my daughter except in her mind!
that	You show me Regan' s double...... same face, same voice, everything...... and I' d know it wasn' t Regan.	I' d know in my gut.	I' m telling you that that thing upstairs isn' t my daughter.	I want you to tell me that you know for a fact...... there' s nothing wrong with my daughter except in her mind!
chi	The flag is up, and they' re off and running.	Dr. Twink is going to the front, followed by Lucky Dan, lma Dreamer, Orkin,	Josie G., Chi Chi and Little Star.	Around the clubhouse turn, it' s Lucky Dan ahead,
chi	Around the clubhouse turn, it' s Lucky Dan ahead,	- Dr. Twink a length, Orkin a half, - [Shouting]	followed by lma Dreamer, Josie G., Chi Chi and Little Star.	lnto the backstretch, it' s Lucky Dan a length, Dr. Twink a half,
oink	I like "The full blossom of the evening".	Hey, Snake.	Don' t take any oink oink off that pretty pig.	Don' t you worry about that.
that	That the --	That the dead speak to us from beyond the grave.	That that' s what conscience is.	That' s interesting.
that	Be not impertinent! want to know.	I don' t want to lose time. me also taste of being directo. yes, Clara.	- She told any thing. were for that that I came.	- She spoke! she told any thing.
that	I display...... some tenderness.	fake that you like me.	It is alone of that that I need.	- But I like you...
that	He wouldn' t tell me.	Said it had nothing to do with us.	It' s seems that that' s that.	It' s all over.
you	He' s not wrong 'cause there' s nothing wrong.	There' s nothing wrong.	You go to a doctor with a bleeding ear. and he tells you you got a headache...	Yes, well, you' re not sick, so that is good news.
you	Tell me.	What can I do?	Kyung- hee, I love you you said it wasn' t for me.	I checked with the school his son goes to.
that	What is it?	Look, about earlier...	I don' t want you to think that that made me uncomfortable.	It' s just that since Teri died, I never thought I' d...
this	We now have an opportunity to show our clients how well we will rise to his exhilarating challenge	- Yes - Nicholas Van Orton?	- Who is this this?	- This is Cynthia from C. R. S.
just	Can you help me out?	I need some toilet paper I ran out	Just just go out to the next stall	Come on help me out
just	- Phone?	- Phone... if there was one we' il wait for help, so...	Iet' s just just wait for help	Okay, I' il give you a boost
you	Why do you ask?	I don' t know	All the time I' ve known you you' ve never once asked about him	I guess he was just on my mind
very	He took the kids to the zoo	The zoo?	That' s very very sweet	Which zoo?
really	- Think about it what' d you see?	- I saw them kill him	No, what' d you really really see?	This whole time, special effects... squibs squibs like in the movies Nicholas, Nicholas listen
squibs	- I saw them kill him	No, what' d you really really see?	This whole time, special effects... squibs squibs like in the movies Nicholas, Nicholas listen	Damn it, he' s got a real gun with the goddamned bullets... ok ok I' il put it down
conrad	Nicholas	Please goddamn it	Conrad Conrad' s there	It' s your birthday party
call	one pill makes you larger and one pill makes you small and the ones that mother gives you don' t do anything at all	Go ask goddess... when she' s 10feet tall	And if you go chasing rabbits and you know you' re going to fall tell him I' il hook her smoking caterpillar has given you the call call Alice... when she was just small when the men on the chess board get up and tell you where to go and you just have some kind of mushroom and your mind is moving on go ask Alice	I think she' il know when logic and proportion have fallen so all be dead and the white knight is talking backwards and my red queens all in her head remember that the dog have said...
heh	To Dangertainment.	Salute.	Heh heh heh.	And this must be the bed where he was conceived.
for	- Where it learned this?	- Club of the computer.	Estive looking for for the site, certain?	I made a research...... in all the sites of existing searches that I could remember and I did not find nothing......
the	Let me out.	Wait, listen to this.	There' s mass confusion here on the the platform.	This is unprecedented.
that	An opportunity?	To abandon ship.	Well, I don' t know that that' s a friendly out there.	Well, neither do I.
what	Out of the goodness of your heart?	I want you to show me what it' s like.	What what is like, exactly?	T o be like you.
yes	I need more than two helpers.	Can these four men work in the kitchen?	Yes Yes	Stop looking at the compass.
vampires	Something terrible happened on the way.	Don' t talk nonsense.	Vampires Vampires	Pal, there' s no need to put up a show like this for me.
run	He can' t see you if you' re wet	He' s coming	Run Run	Oh, no The jacket' s too short
that	What' s the story on this thing?	Whatever you' ve heard, probably.	You expect us to think that that thing' s real?	Don' t really care.
very	There you go, guys.	This is a very kind offer, Mr Kirby.	I' m a very very busy man.	I can recommend a couple of guys who is highly qualified that...
that	Come on!	Dad, what are you saying?	That that woman is a ghost?	Look!
that	Come on!	Dad, what are you saying?	That that woman is a ghost?	Look!
mighty	Hi.	#... brick house #	# She' s mighty mighty, #	# Just lettin 'it all hang out #
mighty	(moaning)	# Ow, she' s a brick house #	# Yeah, she' s mighty mighty, just lettin 'it all hang out #	# Ow, she' s a brick house #
mighty	# 36- 24- 36, what a winning hand #	# Ow, she' s a brick house #	# Yeah, she' s mighty mighty, just lettin 'it all hang out #	# Ow, she' s a brick house #
mighty	# Sure enough can knock a strong man to his knees #	# She' s a brick house #	# Yeah, she' s mighty mighty just lettin 'it all hang out #	# Ow, she' s a brick house #
this	Eugene give me the gun, give me the gun no no, no... dont like this, don like this... no Eugene no...	I want to kill myself oh my god ah...	you forget to put bullet have six bullet my god, this this is impossible is he dieing, I think he is	is this safe, brother
doctor	I think another murder will happen ah	listen, I wantyou to stop pushing him out what happen, is my baby ok? his neck is stuck, the baby is in danger in this afternoon accident, two people die one of them is die after safe because of the shake of the ambulance make the airbag explore and cause the girl die she is waiting help in the car suddenly the air beg explore	where is Elizeberth we must help the baby, call the doctor doctor Calrs please, plese come to room 6 the baby cant come out, how?	you want to die where are you going go to find Eugene doctor Cals here
home	Hunt.	Home!	# Home, sweet home Home, sweet home	# Home, sweet home Home, sweet home
home	Home!	# Home, sweet home Home, sweet home	# Home, sweet home Home, sweet home	# Home, home, home # (Rabbit) Ohh...
jarvis	Must' ve mistaken me for someone else.	Name' s Jarvis.	Jarvis Jarvis.	And this is my better half, Bon Bon.
bon	Name' s Jarvis.	Jarvis Jarvis.	And this is my better half, Bon Bon.	- No kidding,... kidding.
heh	Sweet dreams, monkey boy.	What the hell was that for, man?	Heh heh heh!	You' re a fucking lunatic, you know that?
wait	And you are?	- Kirk' s the name.	Wait wait.	Captain Kirk?
sugar	Okay you know what?	I' m coming with you.	I' m starting to get diabetes from all this "sugar sugar" over here.	- What aboutyou Studly Doolittle?
wait	Said so huh?	Maybe I should just -	Wait wait wait.	I think I feel some rain coming.
hurry	Everybody!	- We just need to - - Lock the door!	Hurry hurry!	What?
you	See?	It' s true.	I told you you were next, man.	Stop it, Carter.
you	Clear, stay there, OK?	Stay away.	- I told you you were next!	- It skipped me.
you	See?	It' s true.	I told you you were next, man.	Stop it, Carter.
you	Clear, stay there, OK?	Stay away.	- I told you you were next!	- It skipped me.
sing	Good day, gentlemen.	Remember I told you I knew the man with the whiskers?	Do you remember that artist in Sing Sing who painted The Last Supper on his cell?	Hendricks.
sing	- Bless you, Mr. Shane.	- Thank you, Miss Allen.	By the time this guy gets out of Sing Sing... this head will grow a long beard.	English
the	But unfortunatelly you have two hours to live.	Right now, you are breathing a deadly nerve agent. you' ve been breathing since you arrived here.	As you are familiar with Tokio subway attacks will know it' s devastating effects on the the human body.	The only way to overcome it and walk out that door, it is to find the antidote.
soum	Silent, empty streets with odd names...	INADEQUACY ST.	SOUM SOUM ST.	HONEY HOTEL ST.
the	But unfortunatelly you have two hours to live.	Right now, you are breathing a deadly nerve agent. you' ve been breathing since you arrived here.	As you are familiar with Tokio subway attacks will know it' s devastating effects on the the human body.	The only way to overcome it and walk out that door, it is to find the antidote.
had	Think about it.	lt`s a very effective way to spread a message.	I mean, imagine if Hitler had had the lnternet.	Maybe Satan`s found someone to do his bidding again.
the	But unfortunatelly you have two hours to live.	Right now, you are breathing a deadly nerve agent. you' ve been breathing since you arrived here.	As you are familiar with Tokio subway attacks will know it' s devastating effects on the the human body.	The only way to overcome it and walk out that door, it is to find the antidote.
had	Think about it.	<i>It' s a very effective way to spread a message. </ i>	I mean, imagine if Hitler had had the Internet.	<i>Maybe Satan' s found someone to do his bidding again. </ i>
you	The bombs were aimed at us.	You just don" t have a clue about what brought you here, do you?	You" d fight for any son of a bitch if he convinced you you were right.	- Someone convinced you.
they	The scientists found radiation and shut down the mines.	The NEB Corporation threatened them, and there was a stand- off for years.	They they started to rain everything down on us.	Nuclear disc bombs, chain bombs, bacteria crystals.
boom	They' il never find us.	Not in the whole wide world.	"Boom Boom" has got him now!	"Boom Boom" has got him.
boom	Not in the whole wide world.	"Boom Boom" has got him now!	"Boom Boom" has got him.	I thought this kind of stuff made you sick.
that	Then we say, "Oh, well, not really." It' s this little tiny point of really dense matter right at the center...	"surrounded by a kind of fluffy probability cloud of electrons... popping in and out of existence. '"	But then it turns out that that' s not even right.	Even the nucleus, which we think of as so dense... pops in and out of existence just as readily as the electrons do.
that	When I create my day... and out of nowhere little things happen... that are so unexplainable...	I know that they are the process or the result of my creation.	And the more I do that, the more I build a neural net in my brain... that I accept that that' s possible... it gives me the power and the incentive to do it the next day.	In addiction, we have a supreme, beautiful opportunity... to decipher the difference between... our intangibility of our nobleness of character... and the day- to- day business ofhow that character is revealed... in a three- dimensional world through our bodies.
mary	hold the link, don' t break it hold the link it' s critical for mary.	Don' t break the link, don' t break it	mary mary...	the soul that pines for eternity... shall outspan death.
bye	Bye.	So long sandra.	Bye bye and take it easy.	Jerry, bye.
sandra	On the same old problem, men.	Why do they have to make life so difficult?	Sandra sandra... did he hurt you?	Did he claw you?
bob	Bob?	Bob...?	Bob bob... what happened?	Did you hurt yourself?
bob	Bob bob... what happened?	Did you hurt yourself?	Bob bob... bob bob... don' t leave me alone i' m afraid...	hello?
john	Take it easy.	Calm down.	My baby, my poor baby you better take john john out.	Yes, of course.
john	My baby, my poor baby you better take john john out.	Yes, of course.	John john come on.	Let' s go outside.
john	I saw her looking in the window.	She wanted to catch me.	Emily went away forever, john john she' s in heaven.	I saw her... i swear, i saw her i really did you better call the doctor.
very	What is it?	There' s only two possibilities.	Either i' m going out of my mind or something very very strange is happening.	Look, take it easy.
the	Yeah, yeah, yeah.	At this point, a good stiff drink is the only medicine what are you gonna do?	I don' t believe in the twilight zone so i guess i' il call the the sheriff on this matter.	And what do you tell him?
sandra	- please... tell her to go... she' s in here you hear her.	Jerry, she' s in here, i can' t take it anymore.	Sandra sandra, calm down.	Don' t let imagination run away with you.
john	They' re worms...	who' s speaking?	Alright, john john now listen to me you take it easy.	Stay right there and don' t move.
john	Is the kid alright?	Scared to death.	John john... it' s all right.	It' s going to be all right.
john	It' s going to be all right.	It' s all over now	now listen, sandra go to the studio with john john stay there and don' t let him out of your sight yeah, sure jerry, we' d better get a move on we only have god knows what else will happen	emily?
john	now listen, sandra go to the studio with john john stay there and don' t let him out of your sight yeah, sure jerry, we' d better get a move on we only have god knows what else will happen	emily?	No... no go away no... go away... emily... john john, thank god you' re safe, boy.	There' s a police car around the corner mary' s there too, you go straight to it go...
crap	we interrupt this program to bring you a special broadcast dunwich a state of emergency, effective immediately within dunwich county all citizens are requested to return to their homes as quickly as possible in case of necessity contact this station, radio wdwc the telephone number is 825...	mind telling me what' s going on?	The dead are leaving their tombs that' s a load of crap crap or not i' m taking my money i' m closing my doors until tomorrow morning and i' m not opening it for anybody	i believe father thomas is buried in the family tomb over there
laa	Where...?	English Subtitles by SDI Media Group	La la la- la laa laa	La la la- la- la- laa laa
laa	English Subtitles by SDI Media Group	La la la- la laa laa	La la la- la- la- laa laa	Deep in the Hundred- acre Wood
hee	Look... a fly swatter!	Just what I' ve always wanted.	Hee hee ha ha!	Wait till those bugs see this!
doo	In the new year, Pooh year, too!	Deedledum	Ooh dee la doo doo ho ho ho ho	There.
ooh	I remember your gift!	I shall be right back, Piglet.	Ooh ooh!	Hoo hoo hoo hoo hoo.
hoo	Ooh ooh!	Hoo hoo hoo hoo hoo.	Ooh hoo hoo ooh.	Ooh.
hoo	It must be here s...	Oh!	Hoo hoo!	Oh!
hey	Man..	That' s a funny cup.	Hey Hey	Where' s the birthday girl?
yeah	People are getting a little antsy waiting for Emma to wake up from her nap.	So would you mind performing them once now?	Sure, yeah Yeah?	O.... kay Okay?
that	How is that going to help?	I bought you!	How did I forget that that' s all you do?	Way to go, robot!
okay	What is wrong with me?!	It looked more delicious when it was a penis!	Okay Okay, you ready?	Yeah.
you	Novels, painting, OK!	But not the cinema.	Everyone will tell you you' re crazy	But you never listen.
listen	- So come on, come on He won' t listen to me	- Ah, Ah- ah- ah Oh- oh- oh	- Come on, listen Listen to me	- Come on and listen to me
listen	- Ah, Ahh Oh- oh- oh- oh	- Come on Listen to me	- Come on, listen Listen to me	- Ah- ah- ahh Ohh, oh- oh- ohh
because	- Because, because, because of one man	- Our elimination because of one man	- Because, because because of one	- Cause of one cause of one man [Priest]
faded	- Like a common criminal Like a wounded animal	- A jaded mandarin A jaded mandarin	- Like a jaded, faded faded, jaded, jaded mandarin	- Get out They' re waiting
sanna	You' re Herod' s case.	- Hey, hosanna Heysanna	- Sanna sanna ho	- Sanna, heysanna, ho and how
tom	Messerschmitts!	A whole swarm of them!	Tom Tom, on your tail!	I can see him,
tom	But he' s glued to my arse.	Boys, you noticed, I don' t stutter when I' m shit- scared?	Tom Tom can' t bail out!	- N2, Roger.
that	What that person at your has called that you want pay yourself?	And what produces t you?	Generally t is this way that that person on the other partner falls.	Or they recognise something in that other.
very	You know whatelse I want to do?	I want to clean up this place, just get rid of all the fucking junk.	Probably look like I' m a terrible housekeeper, which I sometimes am...... but I can also be very very, you know, organised and neat.	And I wanna do more of that.
that	No, no.	- Not quite.	- It' s problems like that that are difficult to solve.	Have you guys read any self- help books or done any counselling?
sure	ln the books, it' s the 22th immutable laws of marketing.	The 4th law is the law of perception, which is:	we analyze a situation to make sure sure that the truth is on our side.	But it' s an illusion.
aye	- All right.	What do you reckon, eh, kid?	Aye aye!	Look at him, look.
aye	All right there?	Here we go.	Aye aye!	How are you doing, son?
the	"A high, it' s a high!"	"A wave of colours unknown"	"It' s a venom the the heart loathes"	Hello, Serban, Remember me?
you	Thanks.	Hello, Mrs. Rutledge.	I wanted to tell you you can stop worrying...... and call off your bloodhounds.	We found Shawn.
was	Cold be heart and Rock and bone.	And call every traveller far from home.	He said your life was was a sad story.	They do not see what lies ahead when sun has faded and moon is dead.
jar	Deesa bad times, bombad times.	She didn' t even recognize me,	Jar Jar.	I thought about her every single day since we parted.
jar	I take on this responsibility with deep humility tinged with and overwhelming pride.	It is not every day that I am called upon to...	You' re a good friend, Jar Jar.	I don' t wish to hold you up.
have	Even in my adventures since I haven' t seen a more beautiful place.	Everything is different now...	Time may have have distorted the history of your memory.	It must be difficult having sworn your life to the Jedi, not being able to do the things you like.
fucky	- Fuck!	Hey you, come back.	Fucky fucky?	You know the Tenia?
kissy	You always say I' m too cerebral.	It' s a simple, basic question.	Oh, little kissy kissy!	Why don' t you sing while you' re at it!
you	Take off your clothes.	What' s happening?	Look, I knew the second I met you you weren' t Clark Devlin.	Now take off the tuxedo.
you	How could you kill her without the pre- cops seeing it.	So you used the system you control against her.	So you hired someone to kill her for you You know the pre- cops can see that.	You promised to reunite her with her daughter.
terra	You always talk like an intellectual.	- Me?	But after all it' s always terra terra.	It' s about sex.
faster	Sean!	Hi Daddy!	Can you teach me to run faster faster?	My class run faster than me.
for	We' re ready when you are John.	- Standing by.	I know this part, "I' ve got no drugs, No taxes return for for the last 5 years."	I set up a protection team as soon as we know the location.
faster	Sean!	Hi Daddy!	Can you teach me to run faster faster?	My class run faster than me.
for	We' re ready when you are John.	- Standing by.	I know this part, "I' ve got no drugs, No taxes return for for the last 5 years."	I set up a protection team as soon as we know the location.
the	*** I' m frying M. C. 's like they was plantains ***	*** Got little fingernails with their mink lapels ***	*** Loving crisp bills sips on the the Pink Champale ***	*** The ones that keep the toasts hittin '***
that	Construye one of which nobody knows it can take to Chesnia in. - the suitcase of its car, would not be form to track it.	Could send it and say that it did not do it.	its respect Sir I do not believe Yet that that has sense.	If it has sense.
got	No body stands up with Foxy Clepabra.	I never intended to hurt you baby.	I got got a taste of honey.	Oh behave.
that	It depends, Michael...	Where there are been in the last 9 days?	I do not believe that that is subject yours	Oh, you are mistaken, concerns much to me...
you	Now we have an agreement, I I create	In agreement	You you are not going to me to disappear Michael again	Hey, did it very well, Mr. Haise
good	- I am hungry, that so your?	- I believe that I am going to happen, thanks	This good Good night	Ohhh, Michael!
that	Nicole...	You hurt to me much...... and I cannot so single dejarte play with my heart, this good?	You hurt to me and I will not return to leave that that returns to happen	The love does not live more here
that	We did it?	We used its fiancèe?	No, but I am sure that that is what he thinks	- Hello?
this	I am tired to happen time between attacks and murders	Good, Kevin was the person in charge of to put it in prison again, the problem is...... that he thinks that you are Kevin, so this coming behind you	No, no, this this not happening!	This not happening!
was	Call me heart and hand and bone.	And call every traveller far from home.	He said your life was was a sad story.	They do not see what lies ahead when sun has faded and moon is dead.
jar	Obi!	Mesa so smilen to seein yousa!	- Good to see you again, Jar Jar.	- Senator Padmé.
jar	I' il have an offiicer stationed on every floor, and I' il be in the control center downstairs.	Mesa busten wit happiness seein yousa again, Ani.	She hardly even recognized me, Jar Jar.	I' ve thought about her every day since we parted, and... she' s forgotten me completely.
jar	Mesa honored to be taking on dissa heavy burden.	Mesa accept this with muy, muy humility and, uh --	Jar Jar, I don' t wish to hold you up.	I' m sure you have a great deal to do.
that	I can' t breathe.	I' m haunted by the kiss that you should never have given me.	My heart is beating... hoping that that kiss will not become a scar.	You are in my very soul... tormenting me.
the	Get out of my way!	I' m gonna kill him!	You are the the luckiest, the cunningest...... and most reckless man I ever knew!	Bless you, laddie!
aha	Save me from my self.	You' re insane Goldmember!	And "That' s the way aha aha I like it", "KC and the sunshine band".	Alright Goldmember, don' t play the laughing boy.
heh	I always say the way a man treats his car... is how he treats himself.	I' d say that' s probably true, Inspector.	Heh heh heh!	You have a good sense of humor... for a foreigner, Monsieur Frank.
heh	I forgot.	Rule 2.	Heh heh heh!	I like him.
kids	But I Think They Are Coming Next Week	I Am Just Joking	Kids Kids Kids	I Am Joking
liqi	I Am Kelly Teky From The World Outsdie	I Am The Founder Here	People Call Me Liqi Liqi	Are You Not Bad
you	Take off your clothes.	What' s happening?	Look, I knew the second I met you you weren' t Clark Devlin.	Now take off the tuxedo.
sweet	Lucky gum, huh?	- Drink!	- Gladly my sweet sweet ladies.	Ok, I want u to get out, go roll around to the snow, run up and back down that cable.
bye	- Felt soft..	- Ohhh, soft right now..	- Bye bye	- Hey, where are you going?
bye	- This tops ladies only..	- Yes we don' t mean to be ruthless.	Bye bye..	Hey dude, wait up..
hmm	That' s nice..	- U remember that hotel, where we were gonna stay?	- Hmm hmm - That one..	I' il be there
what	OK!!	- What?	- What what?	Lets go employees before this bloody weather change and everything nasty, ok?
lala	We take them back.	No, princess kiss boyfriend like in hot top..	Kissy kissy, lala lala	Hey, they didn' t do anything..
move	Ian?!?	Holy shit!	Move move....	- This man is Pavlev?
chloe	- Yeah..	- Come on, let' s go.	Chloe Chloe	These goddamn boots...
wait	Oh you gotta be kidding!	- Alright, kick the windows in...	- Wait, wait wait..	Whoa..
move	Can' t I think.	Ok ok..	Move move..	Quite to drop..
hey	Move move..	Quite to drop..	Hey hey, shoot him..	Keep going, I' m right behind you..
thanks	Ok?	- Count on them..	- Thanks thanks	I' il stay..
terra	You always talk like an intellectual.	- Me?	But after all it' s always terra terra.	It' s about sex.
boom	Or you could say that Eddie was just unlucky.	Either way it taught me to keep a very open mind.	Boom boom.	Anyway...
that	We' ve Iost enough men for on night, don' t you think?.	Let me show you something.	Now do not tell me that that is fucking normal.	What happened to Ryan is happening to me.
yitti	You' re awake.	Hey, Joe, you want to give it a go?	Yitti yitti ya ya da da	Uh- oh.
blah	"Captain Steven Hiller"... loser.	- Come on!	- Blah blah blah!	"We regret to inform you that despite your excellent record of service..."
you	You' il kill them and us.	If we fire nukes...	- Sir, may I remind you you are a guest here?	- You ever hear of nuclear winter?
heh	Come on!	Blondie?	Heh heh.	I' il help you.
tsk	Clem.	Follow him.	Tsk tsk tsk.	Hey... oop!
all	Just relax.	We not tryin 'to coach y' all now.	Coach done gave y' all all these adjustments, okay?	If you do everything the coach told you to do -- Two - point conversions,
alds	Everyone has AlDS	AlDS, AlDS, AlDS	AlDS, AlDS, AlDS, AlDS AlDS, AlDS	Everyone has AlDS
alds	We' re gonna break down These barricades	Everyone has AlDS, AlDS, AlDS, AlDS, AlDS	AlDS, AlDS, AlDS, AlDS, AlDS AlDS, AlDS, AlDS, AlDS	AlDS, AlDS, AlDS, AlDS AlDS, AlDS
alds	Everyone has AlDS, AlDS, AlDS, AlDS, AlDS	AlDS, AlDS, AlDS, AlDS, AlDS AlDS, AlDS, AlDS, AlDS	AlDS, AlDS, AlDS, AlDS AlDS, AlDS	- Great job, Gary.
alds	- The pope has got it and so do you - AlDS, AlDS, AlDS, AlDS, AlDS	Come on, everybody We got quilting to do	AlDS, AlDS, AlDS AlDS, AlDS	We' re gonna break down These barricades
alds	We' re gonna break down These barricades	Everyone has AlDS, AlDS, AlDS, AlDS, AlDS	AlDS, AlDS, AlDS, AlDS, AlDS AlDS, AlDS, AlDS, AlDS	AlDS, AlDS, AlDS, AlDS AlDS, AlDS
alds	Everyone has AlDS, AlDS, AlDS, AlDS, AlDS	AlDS, AlDS, AlDS, AlDS, AlDS AlDS, AlDS, AlDS, AlDS	AlDS, AlDS, AlDS, AlDS AlDS, AlDS	Freedom isn' t free
that	- Dr Chase.	- What are you doing here?	- Is that that hot girl?	- How does she look?
that	Not for myself, but for my knights, for this is truly their hour of need.	Deliver them from the trials ahead, and I will repay you a thousandfold with any sacrifice you ask of me.	And if, in your wisdom, you should determine that that sacrifice must be my life for theirs, so they may once again taste the freedom that has so long been denied to them,	I will gladly make that covenant.
stop	I will not.	You will be me or I' il kill you, with my own hands.	Stop stop stop	Your majesty no, in the name of god.
anal	let' s go.	Where' s ana?	Anal anal get in.	What the hell were you doing?
that	- Dr. Chase.	- What are you doing here?	- Is that that hot girl?	- How does she look?
that	And later I learned that the Twin Kings were looking for the lost son...... but never found him.	Because you gave me another name to protect me.	It would be a lie to say that that was the only reason.	You s ee, I never had a wife.
ding	- Uh, Mr. Fogg, she must come with us.	- And why is that? ¤Frère Jacques, Frère Jacques ¤Dormez- vous	Uh, we just discovered that we are related from the same family. ¤Dormez- vous ¤Sonnez les matines Sonnez les matines ¤Ding, ding, ding Ding, ding, ding ¤	Ding, dang, dong, Passepartout.
small	¤Everybody ¤All over the world ¤Join the celebration ¤Everybody ¤All over the world ¤Everybody ¤All over the world ¤In every nation ¤Everybody ¤All over the world ¤Join the celebration ¤Everybody ¤All over the world ¤In every nation ¤Everybody ¤All over the world ¤Join the celebration ¤¤It' s a small world It' s a small world ¤It' s a small world It' s a small world ¤It' s a world of laughter A world of tears ¤It' s a world of hope And a world of fears ¤There' s so much that we share That it' s time we' re aware ¤It' s a small world after all	- ¤Everybody, now - ¤It' s a small world after all ¤It' s a small world after all	- ¤Everybody, now - ¤It' s a small world after all ¤It' s a small, small Small, small world ¤Oh, yeah ¤There is just one moon And one golden sun ¤And a smile means friendship To everyone ¤Though the mountains divide And the oceans are wide ¤It' s a small world after all ¤Come on, come on Everybody, now	- ¤It' s a small world after all - ¤Can you hear me now
small	- ¤It' s a small world after all - ¤Everybody, now ¤It' s a small world after all ¤It' s a small, small world ¤It' s a small world after all No matter if you' re big or small ¤Come on, everybody Let' s bounce to this ¤Let' s dance along with a little twist ¤It' s a small world after all No matter if you' re big or small ¤Come on, everybody Let' s bounce to this ¤Let' s spread some love With a little twist ¤It' s a small world It' s a small world ¤It' s a world of laughter A world of tears ¤It' s a world of hope And a world of fears ¤There' s so much that we share That it' s time we' re aware ¤It' s a small world after all	- ¤Everybody, now - ¤It' s a small world after all ¤Come on, everybody, now	- ¤It' s a small world after all - ¤Can you hear me now ¤It' s a small world after all ¤It' s a small, small Small, small world ¤Come on, everybody, now	- ¤It' s a small world after all - ¤Come on, everybody, now
small	- ¤It' s a small world after all - ¤Can you hear me now ¤It' s a small world after all ¤It' s a small, small Small, small world ¤Come on, everybody, now	- ¤It' s a small world after all - ¤Come on, everybody, now	- ¤It' s a small world after all - ¤Can you hear me now ¤It' s a small world after all ¤It' s a small, small Small, small world ¤Come on, come on	- ¤It' s a small world after all - ¤Can you hear me now
small	- ¤It' s a small world after all - ¤Can you hear me now ¤It' s a small world after all ¤It' s a small, small Small, small world ¤Come on, come on	- ¤It' s a small world after all - ¤Can you hear me now	- ¤It' s a small world after all - ¤Come on, come on ¤It' s a small world after all ¤It' s a small, small Small, small world ¤It' s a small world after all ¤It' s a small world after all ¤It' s a small world after all ¤It' s a small, small Small, small world	- ¤It' s a small world after all - ¤Everybody, now
more	So why London?	London' s a safe place where we can all be together.	No more more moving around, I promise.	Some day when you' re older, Will...
that	- I' m so proud of you.	Good job, babe.	Hey, Frank, is that that Candelaria?	Yeah, Manuel.
alds	Everyone has AlDS	AlDS, AlDS, AlDS	AlDS, AlDS, AlDS, AlDS AlDS, AlDS	Everyone has AlDS
alds	We' re gonna break down These barricades	Everyone has AlDS, AlDS, AlDS, AlDS, AlDS	AlDS, AlDS, AlDS, AlDS, AlDS AlDS, AlDS, AlDS, AlDS	AlDS, AlDS, AlDS, AlDS AlDS, AlDS
alds	Everyone has AlDS, AlDS, AlDS, AlDS, AlDS	AlDS, AlDS, AlDS, AlDS, AlDS AlDS, AlDS, AlDS, AlDS	AlDS, AlDS, AlDS, AlDS AlDS, AlDS	- Great job, Gary.
alds	- The pope has got it and so do you - AlDS, AlDS, AlDS, AlDS, AlDS	Come on, everybody We got quilting to do	AlDS, AlDS, AlDS AlDS, AlDS	We' re gonna break down These barricades
alds	We' re gonna break down These barricades	Everyone has AlDS, AlDS, AlDS, AlDS, AlDS	AlDS, AlDS, AlDS, AlDS, AlDS AlDS, AlDS, AlDS, AlDS	AlDS, AlDS, AlDS, AlDS AlDS, AlDS
alds	Everyone has AlDS, AlDS, AlDS, AlDS, AlDS	AlDS, AlDS, AlDS, AlDS, AlDS AlDS, AlDS, AlDS, AlDS	AlDS, AlDS, AlDS, AlDS AlDS, AlDS	Freedom isn' t free
that	Come on.	You get over there and cover me, man.	You don' t know that that thing could put it out.	I tripled the dose.
that	"Love Me Tender" would be great.	Rufus - he' s the man.	Rufus, who was that that you used to play for?	Rufus Thomas.
bee	This is my neighborhood.	People tend to forget that.	Bee Bee, make sure he gets home safely.	- Yeah, boss.
one	- Yeah, come on.	You wanna do this?	One- on- one One- on- one	I haven' t done that since I was a kid.
you	Thank you, I appreciate that.	Uh- huh, uh- huh.	Hey, Mooney, I thought the captain told you you' re not supposed to have this shit sent here anymore.	I ordered this a long time ago, before he ever told me that.
more	So why London?	London' s a safe place where we can aII be together.	No more more moving around, I promise.	Some day when you' re older, WiIl...
that	- I' m so proud of you.	Good job, babe.	Hey, Frank, is that that Candelaria?	Frank: Yeah, Manuel.
excersize	- You are here on his territory.	Why? we didn' t want to fight.	We just wanted to excersize excersize?	He' s not allowed to see us together.
crazy	But sometimes pussies get so full of shit... that they become assholes themselves!	Because pussies are only an inch and half away form assholes.	I don' t know much in this crazy crazy world... but I do know... that if you don' t let us fuck this asshole, we are going to have our dicks and pussies all covered in shit.	Stop what you are doing Kim Jong- Il!
more	So why London?	London' s a safe place where we can all be together.	No more more moving around, I promise.	Some day when you' re older, Will...
that	- I' m so proud of you.	Good job, babe.	Hey, Frank, is that that Candelaria?	Yeah, Manuel.
bee	This is my neighborhood.	People tend to forget that.	Bee Bee, make sure he gets home safely.	- Yeah, boss.
that	Not for myself, but for my knights, for this is truly their hour of need.	Deliver them from the trials ahead, and I will repay you a thousandfold with any sacrifice you ask of me.	And if, in your wisdom, you should determine that that sacrifice must be my life for theirs, so they may once again taste the freedom that has so long been denied to them,	I will gladly make that covenant.
with	You cut yourself lucky you were here at all today after your public display,	By hericlies, by zeus and by all the gods obey me this once.	Have courage father, and go on your with with joice on each step,	And I may recall your vow.
you	Thank you, I appreciate that.	Uh- huh, uh- huh.	Hey, Mooney, I thought the captain told you you' re not supposed to have this shit sent here anymore.	I ordered this a long time ago, before he ever told me that.
had	... a brief, brief glimpse of the future.	He will open the portal...... and bring about the end of the world.	If only you had had him destroyed 60 years ago...... none of this would have come to pass.	But then, how could you have known?
had	So in return...... I will permit you...... a brief, brief glimpse of the future.	He will open the portal...... and bring about the end of the world.	If only you had had him destroyed 60 years ago...... none of this would have come to pass.	But then, how could you have known?
bee	This is my neighborhood.	People tend to forget that.	Bee Bee, make sure he gets home safely.	- Yeah, boss.
met	let me answer that question you asked earlier more thoroughly.	Right at this moment...... the biggest "R" I feel is regret.	Regret that maybe the greatest warrior I have ever met met her end at the hands of a bushwhackin ', scrub, alkie, piece of shit like you.	That woman deserved better.
heh	Red -- [Snorting]	S- s- s- s- strange.	Heh heh.	Your last name' s Strange?
heh	How does New York Harbor by moonlight sound?	Ohh!	Heh heh!	EVELYN:
moshi	- [Dial tone]	Hello?	Moshi moshi.	Hello?
heh	Oh!	Oh!	Heh heh!	Clever.
heh	Carmen, isn' t it?	And Juni?	Heh heh!	Your children will be joining us soon.
heh	I snap my fingers...	and my fingers snap you.	Heh heh!	Where are the OSS agents you' ve taken?
takeoff	Oh, yes.	So, how are you, pal?	Just a little pre- takeoff takeoff.	Gives new meaning to "flying the friendly skies."
that	- No.	I have some experience.	You know, the longer that that thing stays open, the more risk there is of infection setting in, and then you are in for it.	I once had a scrape I ignored.
listening	# I breathe your breath #	# I hear you speak #	# Are you listening Listening #	# You' re an obsession clouding my mind #
well	Who do you think you are?	Sit over there, you.	- Well well.	Not so tough now, are we?
nothing	Wine increase sadness, don' t get drunk	We' ve eaten Hsiao Hu' s dog and we haven' t requite	Master, monks have nothing nothing to requite	Shih K' ung, aren' t you hurt?
lock	# HOUSE OF PAlN:	Shamrocks And Shenanigans	# Boom sha lock lock boom!	# Boom sha lock lock boom!
lock	Shamrocks And Shenanigans	# Boom sha lock lock boom!	# Boom sha lock lock boom!	# Boom sha lock lock boom!
lock	# Boom sha lock lock boom!	# Boom sha lock lock boom!	# Boom sha lock lock boom!	# I kicks the flava like Stephen King writes horror
lock	# I' m always in the know when it comes to givin 'pleasure	# I' m every woman' s treasure	# The cartoon boom sha lock lock	# Boom sha lock lock boom!
lock	# I' m every woman' s treasure	# The cartoon boom sha lock lock	# Boom sha lock lock boom!	# Boom sha lock lock boom!
lock	# The cartoon boom sha lock lock	# Boom sha lock lock boom!	# Boom sha lock lock boom!	# Boom sha lock lock boom!
lock	# Boom sha lock lock boom!	# Boom sha lock lock boom!	# Boom sha lock lock boom!	# All right!
lock	# Boom sha lock lock boom!	# All right!	Boom sha lock lock boom!	# Breaker, breaker, here comes the caper
aye	It looks like some kind of a drugs buy.	Norhe ofyour ordrhary	Aye aye.	Got some blue tabs.
hey	Oh 've gotparhs Mr McEroy	- Big fucking plans.	- Hey hey hey	No talk.
they	The others stayed aboard the train as it backed into the station.	The idea was they provide cover... and distract the Martians as we set the charges in the plant.	They they' d swing back, pick us up and we' d all get as faraway... from Shining Canyon as we could before the place blew.	Like I said, it was a simple plan.
you	- [Screaming]	[Chuckling]	Told you you' d miss it.	Who do you trust in military intelligence?
aye	It looks like some kind of a drugs buy.	None of your ordinary	Aye aye.	Got some blue tabs.
hey	Oh I' ve got plans Mr McElroy	- Big fucking plans.	- Hey hey hey!	No talk.
takeoff	Oh, yes.	So, how are you, pal?	Just a little pre- takeoff takeoff.	Gives new meaning to "flying the friendly skies."
that	- No.	I have some experience.	You know, the longer that that thing stays open, the more risk there is of infection setting in, and then you are in for it.	I once had a scrape I ignored.
lock	HOUSE OF PAlN:	Shamrocks And Shenanigans	Boom sha lock lock boom!	Boom sha lock lock boom!
lock	Shamrocks And Shenanigans	Boom sha lock lock boom!	Boom sha lock lock boom!	Boom sha lock lock boom!
lock	Boom sha lock lock boom!	Boom sha lock lock boom!	Boom sha lock lock boom!	I kicks the flava like Stephen King writes horror
lock	I' m always in the know when it comes to givin 'pleasure	I' m every woman' s treasure	The cartoon boom sha lock lock	Boom sha lock lock boom!
lock	I' m every woman' s treasure	The cartoon boom sha lock lock	Boom sha lock lock boom!	Boom sha lock lock boom!
lock	The cartoon boom sha lock lock	Boom sha lock lock boom!	Boom sha lock lock boom!	Boom sha lock lock boom!
lock	Boom sha lock lock boom!	Boom sha lock lock boom!	Boom sha lock lock boom!	All right!
lock	Boom sha lock lock boom!	All right!	Boom sha lock lock boom!	Breaker, breaker, here comes the caper
aye	It looks like some kind of a drugs buy.	None of your ordinary	Aye aye.	Got some blue tabs.
hey	Oh I' ve got plans Mr. McEroy	- Big fucking plans.	- Hey hey hey!	No talk.
heh	Red -- [Snorting]	S- s- s- s- strange.	Heh heh.	Your last name' s Strange?
heh	How does New York Harbor by moonlight sound?	Ohh!	Heh heh!	EVELYN: Are yougonnabe abadinfluence?
moshi	- [Dial tone]	Hello?	Moshi moshi.	Hello?
yeah	Okay.	Yeah, I will.	Ok, ok, yeah yeah I will!	No, I won' t.
terminator	My presence in this timeline has been anticipated.	T- X is designed to terminate other cybernetic organisms.	So she' s an anti- Terminator Terminator?	You' ve gotta be shitting me.
sure	Just a few words I learned since yesterday.	Um, may I sit at the bar?	Oh sure sure, please, sit.	What other words did you learn?
terminator	T- X is designed to terminate other cyborgnetic organisms.	So,...	She is an entire terminator terminator?	You' ve gotta be shitting me.
bang	- I' il go with him.	If I' m there, know what it' il be?	Chitty Chitty Bang Bang, nigga.	- That' s what it' il be.
that	Come on.	Y' all gotta do that around land mines?	Would you tell them that that shit is dangerous around these land mines?	You know, Mike, this ain' t easy for me, but I was wrong.
long	Lawyers of France, engineers of Germany... architects of Holland and now of course, warriors of America.	I came when I was with the British legation, know, years ago...	I was soon relieved of my position where I have a long long forest of tendencies to tell the truth... in a country where they never say what they need.	So now, I very accurately translate the other people' s lives.
terminator	My presence in this timeline has been anticipated.	T- X is designed to terminate other cybernetic organisms.	So she' s an anti- Terminator Terminator?	You' ve gotta be shitting me.
you	I' m useless	You go	Why queen do that with you you still stay together with her?	Pay for the one I like
you	You never went to the same place twice.	Until you came home.	I told you you had no idea what you were getting yourself into.	lf you' d stayed out of my business, your wife would still be alive.
you	How?	Do you know?	Tyndareus told you you killed your mother?	He didn' t have to say it.
you	Free yourself	Close quote Who are you?	What about you you rotten bastard?	I made up my mind when I was imprisoned
that	She was a total slut	On the outside she acted like a prude but she was a filthy whore on the inside	Rumors had it that that slut fucked everyone at school	I should' ve gotten in there
you	Still haven' t figured it out?	You lead a stranger to your place Who the hell are you?	What about you you rotten bastard?	We hypnotized both of you
woof	I' m Woojin' s dog from now on!	I' m your puppy!	Woof Woof Woof Wooof	Look, I' m wagging my tail
sure	Just a few words I learned since yesterday.	Um, may I sit at the bar?	Oh sure sure, please, sit.	What other words did you learn?
you	Fascinating performance as always, Monsieur English, but I' m afraid we must move on.	Nobody' s moving anywhere until I' m finished with this piece of low- life.	Do you or do you you not... have tattooed on your bottom the words,	"Jesus is coming...
amen	Amen, amen, amen, amen Amen, amen	[Continues]	Ahh, amen, amen Amen, hallelujah	Amen
you	Fascinating performance as always, Monsieur English, but I' m afraid We must move on.	Nobody' s moving anywhere until I' m finished with this piece of low- life.	Do you or do you you not... have tattooed on your bottom the words,	"Jesus is coming -- look busy"?
you	Given your situation, I can say that I understand your reasons...... para to offer as volunteer to operate on board my ship.	However, if you want to continue in it,	I should ask you you to make a thing.	What thing would it be Mister?
that	And if Niobe is right, in 72 hours they will be more a million room.	- What will we make in this respect?	- We will make that that the Commandant Lock ordered us.	We will evacuate the transmission level and we will return to Zion.
that	I don' t want to hear those lies.	I don' t want to hear of Oracles, neither of prophecies, neither of messiah.	I only care a thing: to avoid that that army destroys the city.	And for I need it that my soldiers obey my orders.
you	- Why?	You know why.	If Dozer knew how I felt, it had not asked you you to make that.	Maybe.
that	I present to Morfeo.	Zion, listen to me!	It is true that that many of you they have heard.	The machines have gathered a army, and at this time...... ese army you is bringing near to our home.
that	That is the reason for the one that there is not young in the Council?	Good point.	Why he/ she doesn' t tell me that that does he/ she have in mind Councilman?	There are so many things in this world...... que doesn' t understand.
that	The prophecy is maybe true.	Or maybe not.	That that yes I know it is that that ship needs an Operator.	And I will be who operates her.
him	I sit down it Mister, he/ she only had that to make arrive something to Neo.	A gift of one of the orphans.	He/ she made me promise that him him he/ she would give before he/ she left.	He/ she said that he/ she would understand.
that	Are you a programmer?	Then what you are?	I protect that that more it cares.	Good, come closer.
that	Something that I knew was impossible, but it happened anyway.	You destroyed me Mr. Anderson.	Then, he/ she knew the rules, he/ she knew that that you it supposes that he/ she should make, but I didn' t make it.	I was not able to, I was forced to stay.
that	We are here because we are not free.	And we cannot escape to the reason, we cannot deny the purpose, because as both we know...... sin purpose...... no would exist.	It was the purpose that that us creó.	The purpose connects us.
that	- Purpose that unites us.	We are here for their blame Mr. Anderson.	And we are here to remove him that that you tried to take off to us.	Purpose.
that	Anything.	Then we request that a ship is dispatched, to investigate what it belonged to the elect.	He/ she would want that that was possible Councilman, but I believe that our defense would not tolerate the loss of another ship.	- He/ she will make it, Major, if it should be this way.
you	You never went to the same place twice.	Until you came home.	I told you you had no idea what you were getting yourself into.	If you' d stayed out of my business, your wife would still be alive.
pei	Every day it' s the same story.	She' s not coming back.	Pei Pei' s married to her work in San Francisco.	Modern woman.
number	This money is your	Put the all right brothers	Number number haha	Is to feel fit
damn	Is	the anterior person intercepts it	damn damn haha the day kills of	raise the hand get off to come
should	Etc.	You return in the hair what is foolish	I do not know that I should should not believe you	You think clarity
car	Very good	See me his data	Car car	His car is there
here	Idiot	The waiter is perhaps you should	Leave to leave here here	Telling you do not want to be again like this
walk	You is fucking what waiter (foreign language)	Seeing the ghost goes to bad egg	Walk walk	Over a few weeks just start
can	The appearance is very the Miami style	While walking to the club	The front can can see well	Let them leaving
long	Lawyers of France, engineers of Germany... architects of Holland and now of course, warriors of America.	I came when I was with the British legation, know, years ago...	I was soon relieved of my position where I have a long long forest of tendencies to tell the truth... in a country where they never say what they need.	So now, I very accurately translate the other people' s lives.
away	I found somebody i want to spend the rest of my life with and i' m gonna hold on to her forever.	Money!	It' s a crime share it fairly, but don' t take a slice of my pie money, so they say is the root of all evil today but if you ask for a raise it' s no surprise they' re giving none away away... away... away... away... away... away... away... away... away... away... away... away... away... away... away... away... away... away... away... away... away... away... away... away... away... away... away... away... away...	{y: i} Translated by:
wait	Come off the ship?	Thank you sir.	Wait wait, captain.	All right, lads.
the	Return the corruption.	Looking for the body when the sea seek them.	The the Lord Jesus Christ.	Amen.
you	Free yourself	Close quote Who are you?	What about you you rotten bastard?	I made up my mind when I was imprisoned
then	I can drive already	Well!	Then then only thing you need to learn is to obey!	The insurance company understands but don' t know what causes the explosion
bye	- I' il think about it.	- I can go to see my wife.	- Bye bye.	- Hey, good job.
pei	Every day it’ s the same story.	She’ s not coming back.	Pei Pei’ s married to her work in San Francisco.	Modern woman.
you	Close quote.	Who are you?	What about you you rotten bastard?	I made up my mind when I was imprisoned
that	She was a total slut	On the outside she acted like a prude but she was a filthy whore on the inside	Rumors had it that that slut fucked everyone at school	I should' ve gotten in there
you	You lead a stranger to your place.	Who the hell are you?	What about you you rotten bastard?	We hypnotized both of you
woof	I' m Woojin' s dog from now on!	I' m your puppy!	Woof Woof Woof Wooof	Look, I' m wagging my tail
you	I' m supposed to go with you.	Well, what' s that mean?	Who told you you' re supposed to go with me?	Nobody told me.
aye	Fire!	- Carry on.	- Aye aye, sir.	Permission to come aboard?
aye	Number One, take her up to 90ft.	Course zero four five.	Aye aye, sir.	- Hello, Penny.
that	(TV) But still there has been no official word.	Despite the fact that only one runway has been closed due to the tragedy,..... several dozen airliners are visible, endlessly circling the field.	Other reports say there was trouble in the tower before the crash..... and that that may have contributed to it.	With weather conditions worsening,..... the problem here and in the sky will grow.
that	Please...	Feels.	Não is necessary that That be unpleasant.	I always appreciated its company.
they	For centuries I stayed of side and I saw the damages that mine sons caused a to another...	And with the humanity.	Não was the bequest by which I prayed in the manhã in that they They entered in this world.	And that tiring service!
with	No wonder you drank.	You figured jail was the best place to lay low.	Just keep pulling my chain...... keep on with with this happy horseshit...... l' il make sure you do need a doctor.	- Ed?
sing	Former cellmate:	John Delano Jaster.	Released from Sing Sing prison Friday.	Treasury surveillance subcontract required.
souca	*** Betterget it whileyou can before thegroundis shaking ***	*** Come, hey, come away ***	*** Souca souca na na ***	*** Come on, come on, miss allez, allez ***
souca	*** Souca souca na na ***	*** Come on, come on, miss allez, allez ***	*** With a souca souca mama ***	*** Hey, mistersee thatsister ***
souca	*** Sticks andstones may breakyour bones ***	*** But nowher looks could killyou ***	*** Hey, come away Souca souca na na ***	*** Come on, come on, miss allez, allez ***
souca	*** Hey, come away Souca souca na na ***	*** Come on, come on, miss allez, allez ***	*** With a souca souca mama ***	*** Oh, hey, come away Souca souca na na ***
souca	*** Come on, come on, miss allez, allez ***	*** With a souca souca mama ***	*** Oh, hey, come away Souca souca na na ***	*** Come on, come on, miss allez, allez ***
souca	*** Oh, hey, come away Souca souca na na ***	*** Come on, come on, miss allez, allez ***	*** With a souca souca mama ***	*** Oh, hey, come away Souca souca na na ***
souca	*** Come on, come on, miss allez, allez ***	*** With a souca souca mama ***	*** Oh, hey, come away Souca souca na na ***	*** Come on, come on, miss allez, allez ***
souca	*** Oh, hey, come away Souca souca na na ***	*** Come on, come on, miss allez, allez ***	*** With a souca souca mama ***	*** Come on, come on, miss allez, allez ***
souca	*** With a souca souca mama ***	*** Come on, come on, miss allez, allez ***	*** With a souca souca mama ***	*** With a souca souca mama ***
souca	*** Come on, come on, miss allez, allez ***	*** With a souca souca mama ***	*** With a souca souca mama ***	*** With a souca souca mama ***
souca	*** With a souca souca mama ***	*** With a souca souca mama ***	*** With a souca souca mama ***	****** [Song Fades]
had	I' m terribly vexed.	I did what I had to do.	If Father had had his way, the empire would have been torn apart.	You do see that?
that	The senator...	... has a lot of friends.	Would you please tell the senator...... if I' d had even an inkling that that was his daughter --	Watch your tongue.
you	Thrust this into another man' s flesh.	They will applaud and love you for that.	And you you may begin to love them... for that.	Ultimately... we' re all dead men.
had	I' m terribly vexed.	I did what I had to do.	If Father had had his way, the empire would have been torn apart.	You do see that?
you	But we have little time.	Give me two days... and I will buy your freedom.	And you you stay alive... or I' il be dead.	Now we must go.
you	Get your ass back into town, or you' re both gonna be so fucking --	You lay a hand on her and I swear I' il come back there and bury you alive.	Let me tell you, when I finish with you you' il wish I killed you.	Audrey, what do you wanna do?
this	Impossible to capture?	It' s the one car that, no matter how many times you try to boost... something always happens.	We' re gonna get through this this time, right?	It' s gonna be smooth.
that	The only '67 Shelby in the area is registered... at a place called the International Towers in Long Beach.	Let' s go to Long Beach.	I know we got a history, Eleanor... and that that history has not been great, but I promise... you take care of me, I' il take care of you.	Shit.
far	Her perfume is sweet promise that brings tears to my eyes	I tell her that everything will be alright	That I' il save her from whatever she' s scared of and take her far far away	I tell her...
hey	There ain' t no squaring it, not this time	This isn' t some bar room brawl or some creep with a gas can trying to torch someone	Hey hey, this is big	Settle down, Marv.
bye	# Here I go #	# Singing low #	# Bye bye #	# Blackbird #
bye	# Sugar' s sweet #	# So is he #	# Bye bye #	# Blackbird ##
very	I have business in East.	My wife does not lamented my absences.	That is either the best of wives, or the very very worst.	- You' ve got to meet Reynald...
will	- No, I- I don' t.	- Please!	Will will totally take you.	You saw what happened to Warren?
the	Constructively museum, and government. personal organization like us	Can work is same to ascertain history.	History which have losed the the duration can return at its people thank you many, hopefully there is pleasant night.	You is there is CD player in your ship?
coastal	Yes but its ithim walk from an place.	Except him walk rear lumba2.	I guess a little a few little in coastal coastal area.	You can can see, iron in that river, my intention really.
can	Except him walk rear lumba2.	I guess a little a few little in coastal coastal area.	You can can see, iron in that river, my intention really.	What we more miss in coast of Virginia
you	Really succeed first time.	That halo of my hat - Again - Yes	Fella, sand will cross with moment you you die from satellite telephone.	Do not as angry as moment of rudy hit boat.
him	There' S nothing love see, because will be more beresiko.	This in taking last 4 hour clock.	Showing peripatetic him him it to north my riddle, and intel support this.	They look for your staff - We have to look for them first.
bora	Come on, let' s go.	There' s been a report from home office.	Xander Cage was killed in Bora Bora last night.	Bora Bora?
bora	There' s been a report from home office.	Xander Cage was killed in Bora Bora last night.	Bora Bora?	Why don' t I get those assignments, huh?
sing	I' d hate to think what he would do to this world if he ever broke through.	Forgot how big it was.	Two hundred souls passed through this wood and steel at Sing Sing.	Yeah.
that	Hi, Luke.	I bring these well just.	Know you certainly that that a good idea is, nephew?	It is a tremendous idea, bowl on.
that	Yes.	Do O, you have it over sex really?	I must for it see to that that bad Nephew of you, from her neighborhood remains.	The manner on which he to her hammetjes looks, if you understand what I mean?
that	What is there new in the world of the strong hand?	Have they you already lieutenant made, Enos?	You know that that will never happen, Luke.	Perhaps there ever a time trifle comes more cleverly becomes and for us comes works... we can have so someone as you Good use in our organization.
you	- About which conceal we this not by Cooter.	We take be truck and go to the highway.	- How will you you feel as I with the General...	Do to Atalanta and you go would leave behind here?
had	Do not know your trifle no white more needs Carry to after the day of the work?	ATLANTA PRlSON TRANSPORT PRlSONERS	He sergeant, if we had had a honest chance Did you have to take can get me then?	But we have to take you already, boy.
that	Damn well you hold snap, there in the back.	No balls.	- My God, must you that that see!	I have a handkerchief necessarily...
that	He Bo, bring him only to house The way is safe.	Okay that go them to me we again.	I take care that that agents me follow...	And as that succeeded is, then take care you that that vehicles way be!
that	Okay that go them to me we again.	I take care that that agents me follow...	And as that succeeded is, then take care you that that vehicles way be!	- Okay, I do.
far	Her perfume is sweet promise that brings tears to my eyes.	I tell her that everything will be alright.	That I' il save her from whatever she' s scared of and take her far far away.	I tell her...
hey	There ain' t no squaring it, not this time.	This isn' t some bar room brawl...... or some creep with a gas can trying to torch someone.	Hey hey, this is big.	Settle down, Marv.
bora	Come on, let' s go.	There' s been a report from home office.	Xander Cage was killed in Bora Bora last night.	Bora Bora?
bora	There' s been a report from home office.	Xander Cage was killed in Bora Bora last night.	Bora Bora?	Why don' t I get those assignments, huh?
you	Don' t get a "thank you" or a "happy to see you, Stone" or nothing.	See?	I told you you should have killed that bitch.	<i>Bravo to Sub Team. </ i>
bang	You see, I' m not too fond of shootir.	It' s my preference to blow things up.	Once you blast the roof off a pub and seen all the parts flying off people, a little bang bang' s never gonna match the sight of that.	And here' s me, with all these fine grenades and such a sweet beauty of a remote.
kunio	I only wanted to see you smile	General	Kunio Kunio!	Ginkaku?
more	Even as men still no is?	Balls of a fourteen- year old are... exactly as effective as those of forty people whose birthday it is.	Sometimes more more effective...	Nobody can bathe these of blood to stop.
you	I do not will pay your vraagprijs.	We are no rich people, as a matter of fact... the market has been already satisfied with your Kalasnikovs.	You you realise, that in some parts... of my land you there one can get for the price of a ticket?	You cannot compare this with only copy.
gone	Half of the weapons had lost, I got therefore also but half of the dia.	If I had caught them, I had gone.	If I had gone gone, koste that head also my.	The hecatomb went such as Vitaly had the voorspeldt.
sing	I' d hate to think what he would do to this world if he ever broke through.	Forgot how big it was.	Two hundred souls passed through this wood and steel at Sing Sing.	Yeah.
pathetic	Hartigan was right about you.	You can' t get it up unless I scream	You' re pathetic pathetic	That' s not wise at all to make fun of me like that
far	Her perfume is sweet promise that brings tears to my eyes	I tell her that everything will be alright	That I' il save her from whatever she' s scared of and take her far far away	I tell her...
hey	There ain' t no squaring it, not this time	This isn' t some bar room brawl or some creep with a gas can trying to torch someone	Hey hey, this is big	Settle down, Marv.
fix	Goldie.	She says her name is Goldie	They fix fix me a pretty decent steak for my last meal	They even throw in a brew.
pathetic	Hartigan was right about you.	You can' t get it up unless I scream	You' re pathetic pathetic	That' s not wise at all to make fun of me like that
changed	What are you looking for?	I am confused.	I think you have changed changed?	How?
you	It' s the most dynamic thing you can do.	You have everything you want.	You have 800 horsepower, you' ve got three feet of suspension, you got a chromoly cage, you got a breathing apparatus, you got a co- rider telling you you need to do these different things.	If you could look under "macho" in the dictionary, there' d be a trophy truck.
you	- Sure.	Let' s go.	Jay...... has anybody told you you have that California look?	No.
easy	Lakchume, hurry up.	Lakchume, pick up the body.	Easy easy...	Be careful... be careful, good boy.
hula	How about letting us know where the hell we are?	Hawaii, on Earth.	So where are all the surfers and hula hula dancers, smart guy?	Some 1 1, 000 years in the future.
you	Think you' il be able to manage it?	I' ve got nothing else planned for this afternoon.	I told you you should have had the bloody thing out.	What the hell' s that?
shame	Stretch him	That' s it Stretch him	Shame Shame	Pleasant... yes?
tin	Look at that!	Pussies drink last, man.	- Fuck you, Tin Tin.	- Hey.
tin	Leather.	Geez.	Oh, what is this, Tin Tin?	A blood stain that' s on here?
tin	[Screaming]	I repeat, a gold engagement ring, yes?	It was pawned here a year ago by a customer of yours named Tin Tin.	He confided in me before he ran out of breath.
tin	[Helicopter Departing]	Who' s this sack of shit?	That' s Tin Tin, one of T- bird' s little helpers.	I think you can rule out accidental death.
tin	- Thank you.	- Take anything!	Now you' re going to tell me where to find... the rest of Tin Tin' s little party pals.	The Pit.
tin	He had a friend who shouldn' t have played with knives.	Like the coat?	You' re the guy that murdered Tin Tin.	- [Looter]
tin	One of my crew got himself perished.	- Yeah, who might that be?	- Tin Tin.	Somebody stuck his blades in all his major organs in alphabetical order.
tin	- Tin Tin.	Somebody stuck his blades in all his major organs in alphabetical order.	Gentlemen, by all means, I think we ought to have... an introspective moment of silence for poor, old Tin Tin.	You' re working for me tomorrow night, right?
tin	- You know how long it took us to put this together?	- Yeah, a long time.	That piece of ratshit made Tin Tin into a fuckin 'voodoo doll!	Tin Tin was a dick.
tin	- Yeah, a long time.	That piece of ratshit made Tin Tin into a fuckin 'voodoo doll!	Tin Tin was a dick.	Tin Tin.
tin	That piece of ratshit made Tin Tin into a fuckin 'voodoo doll!	Tin Tin was a dick.	Tin Tin.	Sheesh.
tin	I got it.	We could use you.	You did Tin Tin.	- This is business, right?
and	Al, what' s wrong?	I' il talk to you later.	If you are what I think you are, you' il know when to listen, shut up, and and when to pray.	Jesus Christ!
chi	Clever, clever, guys.	I' d like an '86 Lincoln...... illinois 354- DOG- 6" 7 ", please.	{y: i} Ramone Chi Chi Testamente, {y: i} a Salvadoran national with quite a record.	Remember, you were harping on me about having a date.
chi	You' re right.	How you doing, Mr. Abandano?	Chi Chi, how you doing?	- I do not like this place.
chi	Nico, the Lincoln!	Nico!	Chi Chi!	Nico!
that	November 12, 1955.	Unbelievable that old Biff could' ve chosen that particular date.	It could mean that that point in time contains some cosmic significance...... as if it were the temporal junction point of the entire space- time continuum...... or it could just be an amazing coincidence.	- Damn!
aye	Pick him up!	- All boats return to Wavekrest!	- Aye aye, sir!	Here.
that	Was it the same thing that you saw the last time?	No.	You know, I don' t think that that thing you saw was one of them.	- What are you talkin 'about?
one	Three one thousand... four one thousand...	Breathe.	One one thousand... two one thousand... three one thousand...	No!
one	One, two, three, four... breathe!	Come on, baby.	One one thousand, two one thousand, three one thousand, four one thousand...	Come on, baby.
one	One one thousand, two one thousand, three one thousand, four one thousand...	Come on, baby.	One one thousand, two one thousand, three one thousand...	Come on, baby!
brother	- A fellow Vulcan is not a...	- Sybok also is a son of Sarek.	He' s your brother brother?	You made that up.
time	What is this, a conspiracy to fuck up my evening?	Mas, what are you doing?	It' s good- time time.	- Kampaitime.
what	Do it.	What?	What what?	Hit me.
and	Besides, this Granny here... doesn' t want him dead so fast.	I know.	Why don' t we hang Takezo from this tree and expose him to the wind and and the rain... and let the crows feed on his eyes?	That' s great!
knock	Stick around.	Hostages are inside!	Knock knock.	I got 'em!
knock	Stick around.	Hostages are inside!	Knock knock.	I got 'em!
high	We gonna get out of here, boy.	I' m gonna see you in the hospital.	We gonna get a high high.	Yes, sir.
rrr	Aargh!	Aah!	Rrr rrr!	Ooh!
squeak	Emergency provisions.	We' re inside Lo Pan' s domain.	Squeak squeak!	Later.
rrr	He' s too busy to care.	So where is he, Egg?	Rrr rrr!	Jack.
again	I can' t get him off my tail.	- Maverick, we' re hit!	We' re hit again again!	- We' re okay.
you	You know how they recruit at I. A. D.?	They catch you on the take.	And they tell you you can either do time or join 'em.	Well, he knows you know Superboy is...
you	You know how they recruit at l. A. D.?	They catch you on the take.	And they tell you you can either do time or join ´em.	Well, he knows you know Superboy is --
knock	- Brace, brace, brace!	- Target 1200.	- Knock knock.	Go upstairs.
you	Mrs. Calvert?	I was just wondering if you had found the Heart of the Ocean yet, Mr. Lovett.	Told you you wanted to take the call.	All right, you have my attention, Rose.
knock	- Brace, brace, brace!	- Target 1200.	- Knock knock.	Go upstairs.
you	I' il let you in on a little secret.	Being the One is just like being in love.	No one can tell you you' re in love.	You just know it...... through and through.
hubba	We' il hit 'em on Friday.	[Tires Squealing]	Hubba hubba hubba.	[Speaking Chinese]
hubba	You could have asked me to quit.	You could have asked me to drive you somewhere else.	Hubba hubba hubba.	Thanks.
hubba	Ohh.	Ho.	Hubba hubba hubba.	I knew I' d seen that ass before.
hubba	[Grunts]	Now.	Hubba hubba hubba.	Aah!
you	I' il let you in on a little secret.	Being the One is just like being in love.	No one can tell you you' re in love.	You just know it... through and through.
gabry	A world where anything is possible.	Where we go from there... is a choice I leave to you.	Ashraf N. El Gabry Gabry@ Email. com	(Men Conversing ln Russian)
you	I' il let you in on a little secret.	Being the One is just like being in love.	No one can tell you you' re in love.	You just know it...... through and through.
the	like the first monkey shot into space.	Without pain, without sacrifice, we would have nothin '.	I tried not to think of the the words "sear" or "flesh."	Stop it!
hoo	- Yeah!	- Ha ha ha!	Hoo hoo hoo!	What the fuck did you guys do?
left	- Yes but you should have told me sooner.	- Should I have sent a sax?	LEFT LEFT!	It' s no so difficult to turn a steering wheel and press a pedal!
hey	Oh yeah?	Too bad we aren' t at the beach then.	Hey hey, don' t smoke, it irritates my eyes.	- No coffee, no smoking...
heh	Oh, it' s nothing.	It' s routine research.	Heh heh.	Actually, it' s a video game.
heh	Whew.	Getting a little toasty out here, huh?	Heh heh.	[Clears throat]
bang	You know this?	This is a gun!	You know, I can bang bang you!	You know, I can shoot you!
bang	You know, I can bang bang you!	You know, I can shoot you!	I can bang bang you, you know?	I know karate!
yes	Jester, be quiet	Prepare to leave tomorrow	Yes Yes, Master	Charity, stay
that	Don' t get in my face, Hubbard.	I just might decide you' re an Ethiopian.	You know, you are stupid enough to think that that' s an insult.	Ifa mistake' s been made, we' il fix it.
yeah	Next time a little restraint might be in order.	~Hey, man, get off my back I' m doin' the best I can, yeah ~ ~ You bust my neck Cut no slack ~	- ~Forget your fellow man Yeah yeah uh- huh ~	- Pull your vehicle over to the right, now!
yeah	- Pull your vehicle over to the right, now!	- This is not good.	- ~ Hey, man, whoa yeah yeah ~ - Licence, please.	- Could you turn down the stereo?
that	You probably think I' m weird.	No, I think you' re great.	When I was a little girl, I used to pretend that that was an ice castle.	And that was my room, that window right up there.
hey	Women see me walking down the street	None of the fellas want to speak	Oh hey hey, on their faces	They wear a silly smirk
that	But he works as an assistant to a very big movie producer named Lee Donowitz.	Lee Donowitz could afford...... and can use, $200, 000- worth of coke.	Being that that' s what you have.	All right, so what did you tell him?
you	I' ve embarrassed you.	No.	Does every man tell you you' re beautiful?	Yes.
you	Flynn!	That' s enough!	I told you you' d need this bad some day.	Thanks, Marine.
fire	That felt all right.	Why can' t he just be like he used to be?	It all seems so long ago young and happy don' t you know down by the creek i would show fireflies to that girl but that was back when he was nice before my warm heart turned to ice my sister' s wig once had lice but that was long ago the schoolyard' s where we were the first time i kissed her he thought he got some tongue but it was only retainer eleanore' s bra is a trainer well, over there' s my family home and the woods we used to roam the only time i had sex was on the phone but that was long ago i carved our names upon that tree i loved him and he loved me my darling wife was once a he but that was long ago he' d always whisper in my ear but then i started drinking beer my jewels got licked by six frisky deer now he' s just a loner and a liar and my trailer' s caught on fire fire?!	Oh, my god!
heh	Ha ha ha!	[Pirates laughing]	Heh heh!	Oh.
sorry	- Aah!	- BEN. shh!	Sorry. sorry Sorry	OK, I' il get the map.
heh	Mmm.	Well... that should hold it.	Heh heh heh.	I taught you too well.
abra	No, no, not you.	Books are always first, you know.	Hockety pockety wockety whack Abra abra dabra nack	Shrink in size very small We' ve got to save enough room for all
wait	What are you...	Let' s go destroy the boiler	Wait wait, you can' t...	Then I' il destroy this one here...
wait	Oooowww...	Alex!	Wait wait, I' m not part of this!	Both my father and my grandfather are working hard in a U. S. laboratory
look	Shh, be quiet	It will be a mess if someone heard us	Look look	Isn' t it interesting?
heh	Follow me... and I' il prove to you that... a robot has no more imagination than a can- opener.	Pinocchio, are you gonna let her challenge you like that?!	We' il show her robots aren' t dumb, heh heh, right?	Right!...
yeah	Where' s Dad?	He isn' t with you?	Oh, yeah yeah, not good, not good.	He left for Scamboland to get you away from Scamboli.
bye	- We' re gonna crash!!!	- That' s right.	Bye bye.	Not quite yet!
ruined	- He' s a big butter- and- egg man.	What do you mean, our lives are ruined?	I didn' t mean ruined ruined.	We' re poor but happy.
her	- Think laxative.	- Think soothing relief.	Please, I' il give her her motivation.	Laxative, darling.
what	You said "And then, what?"	I said "What?"	No, I said "what what", like what what?	- You said "what" first.
yeah	Don' t try this at home.	A movie star or maybe a common thief	- Workin 'at the car wash - Whoa whoa yeah yeah	- At the car wash, yeah - Ooh, yeah
heh	Well, thanks, Pearl.	I gotta warn you, though.	She' s... heh heh... she' s a bit headstrong.	PEARL:
heh	{y: i} As if they weren' t {y: i} sloppy enough.	I' m goin 'long!	Heh heh heh.	Ohh!
heh	This ain' t no rodeo.	Why, good morning, Sam.	Heh heh.	Is that ornery horse gettin 'away from you again?
heh	You don' t think people in town eat animals?	But who would eat a chicken?	Heh heh.	Come on, guys.
tut	Say no more.	I' il go.	Now, tut tut.	No mushy good- byes, my little ones.
hoo	[Neighs]	Hasta la vista, heifers!	Hoo hoo!	{y: i} GRACE, OFF- KEY:
heh	Mrs. Caloway!	Snap out of it!	{y: i} A sound that cattle {y: i} truly take to heart {y: i} Yeah, I can {y: i} yodel- adle- eedle- idle {y: i} Yodel- adle- eedle- idel- odle {y: i} And smack my big old rump {y: i} if that ain' t art {y: i} He don' t rope, {y: i} not a chance {y: i} He just puts' em {y: i} in a trance {y: i} He' s a pioneer pied piper {y: i} in ten- gallon underpants {y: i} Yep, I' m the real {y: i} rip- roarin 'deal {y: i} To those who moo {y: i} Thanks {y: i} to my yodel- adle- eedle- idle {y: i} Yodel- adle- eedle- idle {y: i} I got cattle {y: i} out the old wazoo, heh heh!	{y: i} 'Cause I can {y: i} yodel- adle- eedle- idle- oo {y: i} Yodel- adle- eedle- idle- oo
heh	That' s right.	He had a farm.	Heh heh heh.	Now that all his cash cows have disappeared... {y: i} that poor sap' s {y: i} gonna be flat broke.
hoo	Hmm.	[Dramatic music playing]	Hoo hoo!	[Bell clanking]
heh	No!	Hang on... hang on a second.	Heh heh heh.	They' re just kidding.
heh	Oof!	Don' t make me hurt you.	Heh heh.	Rico.
heh	Ahem.	Mr. Weaseley, my money, if you please.	Heh heh heh.	I was just keeping it safe for you, Slim.
heh	All property and livestock... formerly known as Patch of Heaven... is hereby sold to Mr. Yancy O' Del.	Pleasure doing business with you.	Heh heh heh.	O' Del' s the name, foreclosure' s the game.
hee	This is going to be messy!	[Screaming]	Hee hee hee!	The whole territory belongs to me.
heh	FoIlow me... and I' II prove to you that... a robot has no more imagination than a can- opener.	Pinocchio, are you gonna Iet her chaIlenge you Iike that?!	We' II show her robots aren' t dumb, heh heh, right?	Right!...
yeah	Where' s Dad?	He isn' t with you?	Oh, yeah yeah, not good, not good.	He Ieft for Scamboland to get you away from Scamboli.
bye	- We' re gonna crash!!!	- That' s right.	Bye bye.	Not quite yet!
what	You said "And then, what?"	I said "What?"	No, I said "what what", like what what?	- You said "what" first.
yeah	Don' t try this at home.	# A movie star or maybe a common thief	- # Workin 'at the car wash - # Whoa whoa yeah yeah	- # At the car wash, yeah - # Ooh, yeah
bye	How... how' s it going? "how' s it going?"?!	Ermm...	Bye bye...	But Jason...
bye	Gunnar can we put make- up on you just like on a girl?	No girls, you must be missing a few screws	See you tomorrow girls Bye bye big brother	"Win a new wife - Lottery" (on the sign)
now	Trying to hide, are you, huh?	Won' t you just please leave me be?	Now now there sissyboy, don' t cry You little animal tormentor	Blinking your eyes, huh?
are	Jason!	Don' t kill us!	What the fuck are are you talking about?	Have you been eating mushrooms with Terkel?
bye	Bye now.	But mom!	Bye bye	Where are you Terkel?!
yes	What the devil.. are you allowed out this late?	We' re camping with the class...	Yes yes, that' s fine.	I' m camping down at the pond due south The problem is...
bye	Don' t go, I have on my tip of my tongue	You reep how you sail in a pond...	Wait err, I' il call you bye bye	Action!
busy	Oh my gosh!	Thank you for holding!	Busy busy busy!	Go!
what	- I bring you in here, look you in the eye tell you what' s what and what?	- What?	- What what?	- What what nothing!
what	- What?	- What what?	- What what nothing!	- You said what first!
what	- I did say what first, I asked you what.	No, you said it then what, and I said what?	No, I said what what!	Like what what!
what	No, you said it then what, and I said what?	No, I said what what!	Like what what!	- You said what first.
square	- Ha, man, I told you!	- I' m doing this!	Left circle double left square right to the down square square.	Another square!
hey	Hey Oscar!	- Sykes!	- Hey hey hey, there he is, my brother, my player, the Sharkslayer!	- Yeah whatever, Sykes listen.
very	- We' il you got a whale to wash and the price...	- Give me back the phone!	And the price is... very very low.	Consider no good washers!
what	You said "And then, what?"	I said "What?"	No, I said "what what", like what what?	- You said "what" first.
yeah	Don' t try this at home.	A movie star or maybe a common thief	- Workin 'at the car wash - Whoa whoa yeah yeah	- At the car wash, yeah - Ooh, yeah
heh	Excuse me?	You dropped your dy- dy- dy- dynamite.	Heh heh heh.	What else have you, uh, got in there?
heh	- Can you drive a truck?	Pfft!	Heh heh.	Of course I can drive a truck.
heh	Your journey has been in vain.	But we are peaceful explorers, men of science.	Heh heh heh.	And yet you bring weapons.
heh	You know, Kida... the most we ever hoped to find... was some crumbling buildings, maybe some broken pottery.	Instead, we find a living, thriving society.	Heh heh.	These guys are kinda cute when they' re not, you know... formed into a fiery column of death.
heh	MOLE:	Hey, Milo!	Heh heh!	[Insects buzzing]
really	Nope.	Really?	- Really really.	Oh?
really	We' il just hackle this thing together one little baby step after time.	- Really?	- Really really.	Ok.
like	Perfect.	Yeah.	You know I like like that.	Oh come on baby...
heh	Excuse me?	You dropped your dy- dy- dy- dynamite.	Heh heh heh.	What else have you, uh, got in there?
heh	- Can you drive a truck?	Pfft!	Heh heh.	Of course I can drive a truck.
heh	Your journey has been in vain.	But we are peaceful explorers, men of science.	Heh heh heh.	And yet you bring weapons.
heh	You know, Kida... the most we ever hoped to find... was some crumbling buildings, maybe some broken pottery.	Instead, we find a living, thriving society.	Heh heh.	These guys are kinda cute when they' re not, you know... formed into a fiery column of death.
heh	MOLE:	Hey, Milo!	Heh heh!	[Insects buzzing]
toot	- I don' t know either, but it' s somewhere, and it' s gonna determine the course of the rest of your life.	All ashore that' s going ashore.	Toot toot!	The reason why I refuse to take existentialism... as just another French fashion or historical curiosity... is that I think it has something very important to offer us for the new century.
that	I' d rather be a gear... in a big deterministic, physical machine... than just some random swerving.	So we can' t just ignore the problem.	We have to find room in our contemporary world view for persons, with all that that it entails; not just bodies, but persons.	And that means trying to solve the problem of freedom, finding room for choice and responsibility... and trying to understand individuality.
really	You and what army?	Can I say something to you?	Listen, you were really really something, back there.	Incredible.
really	Nope.	Really?	- Really really.	Oh?
far	So, just sit back and realax my lord, becouse it' s time for you to meet todays eligible batch leerets.	And here they are.	Batch leeret number one is a mostly abuse shading from a kindom far far away.	She likes sushi and hottubbing anytime.
bye	Ogars are like onions.	End of story.	Bye bye.	See you lather.
really	We' il just hackle this together one little baby step after time.	- Really?	- Really really.	Ok.
really	I love you.	Really?	Really really.	I love you to.
hung	ok hop in it where' re you going?	I' m walking	baby I' il call you you know why I want that car for the drive of it for the hung hung... give me a break you need some exercise	look at you you have your own climate good morning how' re you doing?
you	I' m walking	baby I' il call you you know why I want that car for the drive of it for the hung hung... give me a break you need some exercise	look at you you have your own climate good morning how' re you doing?	are you somebody close to the scare records?
there	Run.	let' s move.	Come on please be there there it is just like Randall said	Randall wait a minute 1 34, get the kid back open the door it' s ok Boo come on it' s to move what are you thinking? we can' t trust Randall.
but	James set the stimulation	give us a big row roar	Mr. Waternoose there is no time for this come on what are you waiting for roar but but sir roar	well done
har	Only close the door.	We' re modest.	Har har har.	The guy' s a riot.
you	'Cause she talks too fast	You can' t outthink her, she' s a New York flash	She makes love to you and tell you you' re in love	You make love to her
that	It is Angel that pulled you over.	Listen, I am going to think there.	If I come to suspect, by myself, that that could be true,	I swear to you that I make you skin!
that	I swear to you that I make you skin!	Silence!	Tell to him that that is to you the same.	That is to me the same to die.
that	He/ it helped me.	Mouais...	Is it for that that he/ it kissed you?	- II is hot.
that	It is marvelous!	Me either.	One is going to wait that that falls again, then one will fall asleep.	As you want.
very	Yes!	Let' s leave far from here.	Very very far!	One has a long journey before us.
very	I am going a lot to like you.	One will leave very far from here, do say?	Very very far!	- Angel!
shh	Come inside.	Subrip Codres By Fixed By Pacman	Shh shh shh.	This is a story from long ago... when the great mammoths still roamed our lands.
heh	- Aww...	- Uhh.	Heh heh.	How you doing over there, Koda?
heh	Aah!	Aah!	Heh heh heh.	Cut.
heh	Hello, little fella.	Aah!	Heh heh heh!	Beauty, isn' t he?
doot	[Panting]	DORY:	Hoo doot doo doot doot doo doot	Whoo- hoo!
blah	- Ha ha ha ha ha!	- I' m serious!	"Blah blah blah, me, me, blah!	"Blah blah blah, me, me, me!"
blah	- I' m serious!	"Blah blah blah, me, me, blah!	"Blah blah blah, me, me, me!"	Thank you.
heh	Nice wave!	Oh, wow!	Heh heh.	Up you go!
heh	Nice wave!	Oh, wow!	Heh heh.	Up you go!
yeh	[sings]	This is moss on your head, moss on your head.	Yeh yeh, just laugh at me...	Wake up.
heh	Hello, little fella.	Aah!	Heh heh heh!	Beauty, isn' t he?
doot	Get it!	DORY:	* Hoo doot doo doot doot doo doot *	Whoo- hoo!
blah	- Ha ha ha ha ha!	- I' m serious!	"Blah blah blah, me, me, blah!	"Blah blah blah, me, me, me!"
blah	- I' m serious!	"Blah blah blah, me, me, blah!	"Blah blah blah, me, me, me!"	Thank you.
heh	Nice wave!	Oh, wow!	Heh heh.	Up you go!
ever	Guys, we' re running out of time!	Oh Melman, you broke their clock?	Don' t you ever ever do this again!	Come here!
hunka	- Ah!	Behold.	A super- duper, extra- looper, hunka hunka Heffatrap.	Oh, m- m- m- my.
sugar	To the Roundabout!	(laughter)	# Sugar Sugar 	DOUGAL:
not	- You do not?	No!	I meant, no, I do not not wish to be married.	That is, I want very much to --
here	She' s waited for this day For many a year	For this day, for this day Our hopes and our pride	The bride is here Here comes the bride	Here comes the bride Here comes the bride
the	They are 50 silvers.	- 50 silvers?	For the the something?	For a beautiful picture of his/ her first moment in Robot City!
that	Wake up!	We are not one charity company!	It is for that that Bigweld no he/ she sits down more in that chair.	It is a relic!
the	I don' t want more to hear "please, Bigweld..."	We can say next month, in the party of Bigweld!	Now we will suck all the the common robots' cents.	What do the more robots want?
that	That it seems not to be here...	But he left me in the command.	Then let to show me the one that that can do.	I have a better idea.
that	Then let to show me the one that that can do.	I have a better idea.	I will show you the one that that can do.	He can make that!
not	- You do not?	No!	I meant, no, I do not not wish to be married.	That is, I want very much to...
here	She' s waited for this day For many a year	For this day, for this day Our hopes and our pride	The bride is here Here comes the bride	Here comes the bride Here comes the bride
the	They are 50 silvers.	- 50 silvers?	For the the something?	For a beautiful picture of his/ her first moment in Robot City!
that	Wake up!	We are not one charity company!	It is for that that Bigweld no he/ she sits down more in that chair.	It is a relic!
the	I don' t want more to hear "please, Bigweld..."	We can say next month, in the party of Bigweld!	Now we will suck all the the common robots' cents.	What do the more robots want?
that	That it seems not to be here...	But he left me in the command.	Then let to show me the one that that can do.	I have a better idea.
that	Then let to show me the one that that can do.	I have a better idea.	I will show you the one that that can do.	He can make that!
not	- You do not?	No!	I meant, no, I do not not wish to be married.	That is, I want very much to...
here	She' s waited for this day For many a year	For this day, for this day Our hopes and our pride	The bride is here Here comes the bride	Here comes the bride Here comes the bride
not	- You do not?	No!	I meant, no, I do not not wish to be married.	That is, I want very much to...
here	She' s waited for this day For many a year	For this day, for this day Our hopes and our pride	The bride is here Here comes the bride	Here comes the bride Here comes the bride
heh	Oh goodee.	My Dad just showed me the whole kingdom, and I' m going to rule it all.	Heh heh.	Yes.
heh	When I' m king, what will that make you?	A monkey' s uncle.	Heh heh.	You' re so weird.
heh	And quite by accident, let me assure you.	A simple navigational error.	Eh heh heh...	Whoa, whoa, wait wait wait...
hey	He' s not king, but he' s still so proper.	Yeah.	Hey, hey hey.	Did ya bring us anything to eat,
heh	I' il go with you.	No!	Heh heh heh.	No.
hah	Nothing!	What' s a motto with you?	Ah haah haah hah hah...	You know, kid -- these two words will solve all your problems.
hah	Nope.	Wrong again!	Hah hah hah!	He' s alive and I' il show him to you.
many	I like walking most	Walk straight wolves foxes come here deep to the forest enjoy the adventure	Many many friends	Make me live happily
many	Many many friends	Make me live happily	Many many friends	Make me live happily
bye	Are you going to meet your father?	Yes.	Mei- chan, bye bye.	Who came?
yes	Excuse me for not standing, but... my legs are bothering me more than usual.	Bertha, bring the package.	Yes yes.	I hope it hasn' t taken off yet!
aye	There' s not enough Helium!	Before we hit, jump onto the tower!	Aye aye, Captain!	Hey there, over here!
dee	Come.	On to the theater!	Hi diddle dee dee An actor' s life for me	A high silk hat and a silver cane
dee	- An actor' s life for me - Hold on there!	Pinoke!	Hi diddle dee dee An actor' s life for me	- With clothes that come from the finest shop - Hey!
dee	[Pinocchio]	Good- bye, Jiminy, good- bye!	- Hi diddle dee dee An actor' s life for me - Huh?	Good- bye?
dee	Let' s get outta here before something else happens.	[Honest John]	Hi diddle dee dee An actor' s life for me	A high silk hat and a silver cane
dee	Your health comes first.	Come, the coach departs at midnight!	Hi diddle dee dee It' s Pleasure Isle for me	Where every day is a holiday and kids have nothing to do but play
new	I can 't believe the devil ls so unforgiving	I can 't believe Everybody' s just ad- libbing	By the power vested in me By the state of New New York	No!
deadly	- It' s not small?	- No, no, no.	It don' t take more than deadly deadly bees to keep us from doing our job.	- Come on, boys!
deadly	There' s the blackbox. « Captain, the bees have us surrounded. » « The professor was right.	We' re not as good as his old crew. » « Well I aim to proove him wrong.	It' il take more than a few deadly deadly bees to... »	Couldn' t make that out.
boo	You' il have to go through me!	You call that a wound?	That' s a boo boo tops!	But thanks for trying to save me, Fry!
that	- [Gasps]	Look up!	- Who' s that That girl up in the tree	It' s not a tree It' s moving, see
why	Then before the night goes by	- Ask why, why, why, why - [Giggling Maniacally]	- Why Why?	- [All Gasp]
bye	Why, you!	Get away from here, you filthy ape!	Bye bye!	Nice goin 'Abu.
dee	FAUNA:	La Ia Ia da da da da	Dee dee dee deedle um	La da da
right	Don' t give up on me, Elliot.	I' m not giving up on you.	Nobody gets it totally right right away.	You' re doing great, really.
bob	Elliot Richards spitting glass at your ass.	Bob is courtside with Elliot Richards now.	Let' s go to Bob Bob.	Thank you, Jerry and Dan.
right	Don' t give up on me, Elliot.	I 'm not giving up on you.	Nobody gets it totally right right away.	You 're doing great.
right	Don' t give up on me, Elliot.	I' m not giving up on you.	Nobody gets it totally right right away.	You' re doing great.
late	- Do you have a tissue?	- Just stare at it,	 It' s the Late Late Show with Craig Kilborn.	OK, Go, Go!
yeah	Zipper,	(# "Better Now" (cursed Mix) by collective Soul)	# Yeah yeah	# Oh, I' m newly calibrated
yeah	# Yeah yeah	# Oh, I' m newly calibrated	# Yeah yeah	# All shiny and clean
yeah	# Yeah yeah	# All shiny and clean	# Yeah yeah	# I' m your recent adaptation
yeah	# Yeah yeah	# I' m your recent adaptation	# Yeah yeah	# rime to redefine me
yeah	# Whoa, I' m feeling better now	# Whoo	# Yeah yeah	# Oh, I' m happy as Christmas
yeah	# Yeah yeah	# Oh, I' m happy as Christmas	# Yeah yeah	# All wrapped to be seen
yeah	# Yeah yeah	# All wrapped to be seen	# Yeah yeah	# I' m your recent acquisition
yeah	# Yeah yeah	# I' m your recent acquisition	# Yeah yeah	# rime to celebrate me
hip	Jack!	Three cheers for our champion!	Hip hip!	Hooray!
hip	Hip hip!	Hooray!	- Hip hip!	- Hooray!
hip	- Hip hip!	- Hooray!	Hip hip!	Hooray!
mwah	How you broke my brother' s heart... or how you stuck me with Jeremiah... during my cable show doing...	"Pick a card, pick a card."	Mwah mwah mwah!	I' m sorry, OK?
bye	What are you doing?	We should be on underway in a few moments now... and we look forward to a smooth flight tonight.	Bye bye.	It' s just a pack of wolves.
choo	(Panting, Huffing)	- (Male Singer) * Pardon me, boy * - Huh?	* ls that the Chattanooga choo choo *  * Yes, yes * Track 29!	- Uh, pardon me, boys. - ** (Continues)
else	Anybody else?	Fine by moi.	Anybody else else?	It' s still just a pig.
baa	* Quack, quack, said the duck Won' t you let me in *	* Cluck, cluck, cluck said the little red hen Let' s boogie in the barnyard *	* Baa baa, said the sheep from another hole *	* Moo moo, said the cow Let the butter roll *
moo	* Cluck, cluck, cluck said the little red hen Let' s boogie in the barnyard *	* Baa baa, said the sheep from another hole *	* Moo moo, said the cow Let the butter roll *	* Cluck cluck, said the little red hen Let' s boogie in the barnyard *
cluck	* Baa baa, said the sheep from another hole *	* Moo moo, said the cow Let the butter roll *	* Cluck cluck, said the little red hen Let' s boogie in the barnyard *	- * Yes, the barnyard' s jumpin '* - (Ferdinand Muttering, Squawking)
circus	You would think at some point, Ursula would recommend a zebra pattern.	Unaware of the deadly denizens determined to destroy him...	Well, that' s a change of pace... our accidental tourist took his family backstage at Circus Circus.	As George gleefully greeted his performing pals,..... Ursula wondered if she' d ever come first.
circus	A backscratcher.	And where did he take you on your first day back in civilisation?	Backstage at Circus Circus.	Can you believe his lack of feeling?
heh	Aah!	Oh!	Heh heh heh.	One sugar or two?
heh	Gadget. stop beater.!	OK!	Heh heh heh.	Everything' s fine!
bye	Attention. the unveiling of the new pr. otoid laser.... is about to begin.	I' il see you around, Baxter.	Bye bye, Pedro.	Good luck!
heh	- Cheese.	- Cheese.	Heh heh heh.	Thank you, lnspector.
blah	Now. the thir. d item that I need -- Huh?	"I' m so evil.	Blah blah blah "?	As I was saying... the third item to complete my super weapon.
heh	I know this one -- the ruby.	Yes, but a big ruby -- say, about 50, 000 karats.	Heh heh heh!	Your Clawsomeness... where are we going to find a rock that big?
that	You' re smarterthanheis.	Stay in the car.	I don' t mind baby- sitting you, Penny, but please tell the beagle that that' s an armrest, not a chew toy.	[Man On TV]
wild	- John!	- [Singing]	- I got a wild wild life - Don' tyou ever stop?	Oh, this is so much more cool than hanging out in that lab.
that	Ohh!	Ah, here, here.	Pretend -- pretend that that' s a seed.	- It' s a rock.
widow	And that' s how my 12th husband died.	So, now I' m a widow.	I mean, I' ve always been a black widow... but now I' m a black widow widow.	- Thorny!
