adam	A:  No, like my Adam. Like ADAM-Adam.
again	Well, it won't happen AGAIN-again.
aggressive	Bernard:   AGGRESSIVE-aggressive.
aggressive	Felicity:   You're right, it's AGGRESSIVE-aggressive.
alone	Cam:  I'm alone. I mean, ALONE-alone. I haven't seen anyone since you.
amherst	Does she live in AMHERST-Amherst? Das ist ein kleines Dorf. [That's a small village].
anywhere	ANYWHERE-anywhere?
artist	Jian Ghomeshi:   Neil Young may be more of an ARTIST-artist than a song-artist.
auckland	That's not AUCKLAND-Auckland, is it?
back	Actor:  Well, I wouldn't exactly call this "back". Not BACK-back, you know? Not like comeback back. Just a little independent thing.
bacon	B:  How do they know it's turkey bacon and not BACON-bacon?
bad	Is 37 grams [of saturated fat] good or bad? And even if we have an intuition that it's bad, we'd wonder if it was "BAD-bad" (like cigarettes) or "normal bad" (like a cookie or a milk shake).
bad	Plus, there's a lot of really bad fiction out there -- not just wish-it-was-bad fiction that's actually really good, but BAD-bad fiction.
bag	An evening bag or a BAG-bag?
bank	Do you want to go to the BANK-bank?
be	[name] is coming down for the weekend and I want to be with him -- BE-be with him.
beach	Rafe:   It's a -- you know, the -- a BEACH-beach.
beach	Alison:   "A BEACH-beach." Oh, wow.
better	A doctor:   When you say she's getting better, do you mean BETTER-better?
bitches	Shavoo:  Stop, man. I'm not talking about those kind of bitches. I'm talking about BITCHES-bitches.
boat	Pacey:   No, a BOAT-boat, the kind that sails around the world and takes me with it.
bone	When you were a kid and you had a dog, did you ever try eating a bone? Not one of those BONE-bones, but a Milkbone?
bowling	B:   BOWLING-bowling?
boyfriend	Maya:   You mean a BOYFRIEND-boyfriend?
brother	He's my brother. Well, not my BROTHER-brother.
businessman	Is he like a BUSINESSMAN-businessman? Or is this like when I used to sell lemonade and call myself a businessman?
car	Automakers are reluctant to admit to making what designers call CAR-cars, the basic family sedans bought by millions of typical Americans. Instead, they prefer to draw attention to fanciful design studies that project fun and freedom ... But CAR-cars do still exist...
celebrity	First of all, I'm not like a CELEBRITY-celebrity; I don't get recognized when I'm walking down the street.
change	I only have CHANGE-change.
chicago	Nicholas:   Chicago. Not CHICAGO-Chicago. I was born there but I really don't know anything about Chicago anymore.
christian	He's a Christian, I mean a CHRISTIAN-Christian.
class	Is he in your swim-class or your CLASS-class?
clear	And God, because it's obvious that I don't know how to spot a human being, could you please make it clear who you want me to be with? I mean CLEAR-clear, the kind of clear that...
coffee	A:   Just COFFEE-coffee, no double meanings.
couple	We're not one of those COUPLE-couples.
cow	She wasn't a fancy cow, a Hereford or Black Angus or something, just a COW-cow.
cow	Russell Banks, "Cow-Cow", short story in The Angel on the Roof, 2000.
cred	Who needs street-cred? I don't even have CRED-cred.
cried	Jim:   You mean CRIED-cried, or cried because something heavy fell on you? Once I dropped this spinet piano on my foot.
crime	Jerry:  I know it was a crime. But is it a CRIME-crime?
crime	Jack:   No, whoa, it's not, like, CRIME-crime. It's crime -- well --
dad	That's not DAD-Dad. That's party-party-bam-bam-nachos-for-everyone Dad.
party	That's not DAD-Dad. That's party-party-bam-bam-nachos-for-everyone Dad.
date	Georgia/Millie:   I mean, not a DATE-date.
date	"It's just that ... if this isn't a DATE-date, and it feels like one to me, then I thought I ought to tell you.
date	Martin:   Uh, you know, I think there's been a bit of a misunderstanding here. I didn't mean this to be a DATE-date, more of a friendship thing. You know, I really enjoy your company...
date	Jack:   He's not my DATE-date. We're just going as friends. He calls it taking it to the next step towards self-acceptance and actualization. Whatever the hell that means.
date	Lucy:   A DATE-date? I'm jealous. I've never been on one.
date	Philip:   Oh, come on, chloe. I know we're a long way from all of that. Look, I just want to take you out, okay? Just hang out with you some night. Okay, it doesn't have to be at night. It doesn't have to be a DATE-date. We could just hang out some afternoon -- no big deal.
date	Jennifer:   No, I know. The last time, you were rescuing me, but this would be, like, a DATE-date.
dead	B:   You mean, like DEAD-dead?
dead	In those moments when you're not sure the undead are really DEAD-dead, don't get all stingy with your bullets. I mean, one more clean shot to the head, and this lady could have avoided becoming a human Happy Meal.
dead	In case I haven't been clear, I'm un-dead, not DEAD-dead. All those biological urges still apply.
dead	What's the difference between brain-dead and DEAD-dead?
dead	You're not dead, are you? I mean, you're dead, but you're not DEAD-dead, because you're still here, aren't you?
dead	Vernon:   You mean DEAD-dead?
decided	That could be great. I mean, I haven't DECIDED-decided, but that could be great.
die	Dickie:   Wait. She DIE-dies? I thought this was a happy movie.
dinner	Hannah:   DINNER-dinner?
dive	Although Luke did this awesome dive off the high board, which wasn't really a DIVE-dive, it was more like Will Farrell falling out of a plane.
doctor	Neighbour:  A DOCTOR-doctor, or a you kind of doctor?
dog	Take Charley, for example. He has always associated with the learned, the gentle, the literate, and the reasonable both in France and in America. And Charley is no more like a DOG-dog than he is like a cat. His perceptions are sharp and delicate and he is a mind-reader. I don't know that he can read the thoughts of other dogs, but he can read mine.
doll	His girlfriend's a doll. Not like you're a doll. She's a DOLL-doll, like life-sized and plastic.
done	Bart:   DONE-done.
door	I don't mean my DOOR-door. I mean my metaphorical door. As in "door to my heart", "door to the community"...
drink	Would you like some wine? Would you like a DRINK-drink?
drink	Do you want coffee or a DRINK-drink?
drink	Harold:   Oh, a DRINK-drink.
drink	Harold:   It was a DRINK-drink.
dying	Joan:   You mean, like, DYING-dying?
economist	Larry Summers is not just an economist but, as one of his critics put it, an ECONOMIST-economist.
egg	B:  I've had eggs in, like, cakes. Never had an EGG-egg. I was a very wilful child.
end	We sat there, day and night, trading places, Beth and I, with Toph downstairs usually, Beth and I sitting, sleeping there, sometimes draped over her, waiting for the near-end, so we could gather and then wait for the END-end.
enjoy	Robert:  We have a wonderful bed. I think you'll enjoy it. Not ENJOY-enjoy. Sleep. Enjoyable sleep.
escort	I don't mean ESCORT-escort.
evil	Angel:   Well, it was an evil thing in terms of that world. It just wasn't an EVIL-evil thing.
evil	Never trust an EVIL-evil thing.
familiar	Kissinger:   That's OK. I'm familiar with these young ladies. Well, I'm not FAMILIAR-familiar... I know them.
fans	There's a guy who collects fans. These are not sports fans but FANS-fans
favorite	Will:   My FAVORITE-favorite?
favorite	Barbara:   FAVORITE-favorite.
feelings	Baze:  Like, FEELINGS-feelings. You know, like ~ like the kind people feel.
fight	Elaine:   You mean in a real FIGHT-fight?
final	The FINAL-final copy has to be done by August.
fireplace	We have a FIREPLACE-fireplace in the living room.
flute	You lost me a bit with the pan-flute. ... I guess it was a FLUTE-flute.
food	B:   Sure, they've got chocolate over there but not real FOOD-food.
free	... and we'll be free. Well, not FREE-free, but free in cyberspace, even though we're locked up here.
french	Is he French or FRENCH-French?
french	Police officer:   FRENCH-French?
french	Suspect:   FRENCH-French. From Belgium, originally.
friend	So by "friend" do you mean FRIEND-friend, gay friend, or "ex-boyfriend who you're Platonic with but still might have a thing for you" friend?
friend	B:   Hmm. A FRIEND-friend friend or a FRIEND-friend?
friend	Julie:   Because I had boyfriends. Lots of them in high school. But for reasons too complicated and too big for this subway car, I, um, didn't have a lot of FRIEND-friends. Girlfriends.
friends	So I would say that the president and Mr. DeLay are friends, but not FRIENDS-friends, if you will.
friends	Bianca:   No, FRIENDS-friends -- real friends. That's -- that's huge. Maggie, it's better this way.
funny	And he's funny. FUNNY-funny, not jokey-funny.
funny	Lorelai:  He is funny, but I don't mean FUNNY-funny. I'm being philosophical.
garth	B:   Wow, Garth. Was that GARTH-Garth, or Chris Garth?
gay	B:   Is that happy-gay or GAY-gay?
geeky	Chas:   There's cool-geeky and there's GEEKY-geeky. I'm only ever going to be GEEKY-geeky.
girl	A:  No, I mean GIRL-girls
girl	Lana:   What were you like before all this? Were you like me? Like a GIRL-girl?
glove	... and here are the GLOVE-gloves.
go	B:   Well, not like GO-go. I mean, not like for real. It's just everyone already has a date.
god	C:  Uh, yeah. I'm more of a GOD-God worshipper.
god	B:   Not as in GOD-God. Ra played a god, the sun god.
going	Dr. Brown:   He's not influencing anything. I'm not even really going. I mean, I'm going but I'm not GOING-going.
go	Nina:   GO-go, or just GO-go?
gone	You think they're gone? Like GONE-gone?
good	Craig:   GOOD-good or bad good?
green-tea	... GREEN-TEA-green-tea...
guitar	Donna:  Really? All right! Wait, you mean your GUITAR-guitar, right?
gun	Gas guns? Why not GUN-guns? Our enemies have GUN-guns.
gun	Maybe with a trank-gun, but not a GUN-gun. I hate GUN-guns.
guy	"I'm definitely reclaiming the feminine aspect of masculinity," [Gregory] Scratch explained. But he's also clearly equally keen to juice up the feminine cliches of domesticity with a jolt of testosterone. Those seductively macho paint jobs aren't meant purely as irony: "I'm probably as GUY-guy as a guy gets....I've got sideburns and I love muscle cars."
guy	Robin:   Those GUY-guys, y'know? Those guys with skills?
guys	Shelagh Rogers:   GUYS-guys.
guys	Marah:   Well, they're not like GUYS-guys. They're more like brothers.
handle	Xander:   Uh, no worries. I can handle the Oz Full Monty. I mean, not HANDLE-handle, like "hands to flesh" handle.
happened	Hey, it hasn't happened, has it? It has will-have-going-to-have-happened happened. But it hasn't actually HAPPENED-happened yet... actually.
hardest	Slim:  You know Finnegans Wake by James Joyce? My friend told me it's the hardest book in the English language. I mean, not the HARDEST-hardest, but the hardest one that you can actually read. I thought to myself, if I can get through it, I could probably read the rest.
hat	Should I wear a HAT-hat?
help	Reverend Book:  I wish I could help. I mean, I don't wanna help -- not HELP-help, but -- not with the theiving, but -- I do feel awfully useless.
here	A:  I know, but is she HERE-here?
here	Is he HERE-here or elsewhere-here?
high	B:  It's not HIGH-high, but it ticked up slightly, and he does have a family history.
highway	It is part of the HIGHWAY-highway, not the information highway.
hint	Michael:   It's funny. It's not a HINT-hint, but he has been calling me "pardner".
history	Is it biblical history or HISTORY-history?
hive	Lucy: Wait, like HIVE-hives?
home	Daughter:  No. I'm going HOME-home. Dad's place. Happy now?
home	... things have got so bad that I decide to go home... HOME-home, Mum and Dad home, congealing gravy and Songs of Praise home.
home	Lorelai:  No, I mean a HOME-home. A memory home. The inn is where Rory took her first step. It's where I took my first step. It's more of a home to me more than my parents' house ever was.
home	Cassie:   I know that, for an ambassador's residence, but not for a HOME-home. I just really want a home, Richard. I want to be able to walk around in my bathrobe and not have to worry about it. I want the kids to be able to leave their toys all over the place, not worrying about some prime minister slipping on it.
home	Livvie:   Why not? I mean, I only lived here a few years. It's not my HOME-home, and it's not really your home, either.
hot	You like it HOT-hot, eh? You like it really hot?
house	This isn't actually my HOUSE-house. It's one of the model homes in my old man's cheesy new subdivision.
hustle	I don't know. But I'm telling ~ Like, HUSTLE-hustle.
indian	Doug rounded on him. "Sejal's INDIAN-Indian, Kyle. You were born in Scranton."
instant	Tim:   It's not like INSTANT-instant.
intense	A:  INTENSE-intense.
interested	GT:   Not INTERESTED-interested, like I'm interested in pursuing something interesting, but... It was fun being in your company again, and.. Ally figured I was setting the two of you up for my own...
invisible	B:   Not INVISIBLE-invisible. Just invisible to them.
jealous	Caroline:   Look, when I saw Julia and Richard together, I was jealous. Not jealous like "Hey, they could be a couple and I'm not seeing anyone" jealous, but JEALOUS-jealous, you know what I mean?
jealous	Del:   Yeah, JEALOUS-jealous.
job	Desiree:  Get a JOB-job, God damn it.
job	I had a JOB-job once.
kid	Father:   Not KID-kids, men-kids.
kids	In many of these situations, you're not just dealing with KIDS-kids, you're dealing with adult kids.
kilt	Uh, Avalon, when you said kilt, I didn't think you actually meant a KILT-kilt. I don't know what I was thinking.
kiss	B:   A KISS-kiss?
know	Rory:   Well, I mean, I didn't KNOW-know.
kong-chi	Kenny:   You know, KONG-CHI-kong-chi. It's an ancient oriental artform of loosening up.
language	B::  No, her LANGUAGE-language is telling her she's innocent.
late	Burt:  You mean, LATE-late? Like LATE-late?
late	A:   No, I mean LATE-late!
late	Grace:   No. Eat without me. I'm gonna be LATE-late.
late	Will:   LATE-late? Why, why, why, why, why?
leak	Joey:   The LEAK-leak!
leave	Man:  No. When you LEAVE-leave. You know, when they take you.
leave	Claire:  Pretend leave or LEAVE-leave?
leave	Pretend-leave or LEAVE-leave?
leaving	Are you LEAVING-leaving?
leaving	Lisa:   No. No. I'm not LEAVING-leaving.
leaving	Ryan:   So, like, you're LEAVING-leaving? Leaving town?
letter	I've actually thought about doing more LETTER-letter writing.
letter	Jane:   Yeah. Like the ones you write to your girlfriends. But just a LETTER-letter, not a love-letter.
listen	Todd:   All right, you listen to me now, and you listen -- like LISTEN-listen, OK? You don't redesign anything. So whatever you did, you put it back the way it was. You got that?
logic	Narrator:   Now, most people don't know this but there are two kinds of logic. There's LOGIC-logic and then there's 12-year-old-in-love logic.
long	B:   Not LONG-long hair.
lose	Wilson:   You didn't... LOSE-lose.
loser	Lucas::   'Cause I was a loser. I mean, not like a LOSER-loser, you know, but I was definitely the most popular of the unpopular.
love	Dr. Joyce (on the TV):   Well, there are two kinds of love, Jerry. There's wellness love, which is good love, healthy love, LOVE-love.
madness	MADNESS-madness. [picture of man screaming "I am the Mouse from Planet X."]
madonna	Dylan:   Don't think virgin Madonna, think MADONNA-Madonna.
marcus	They just call him psycho-Marcus because they're trying to distinguish between him and MARCUS-Marcus and normal-Marcus.
mark	B:  MARK-Mark?
marriage	I don't know. I... I guess I just never gave that much thought to MARRIAGE-marriage.
married	Harlin:   Oh! Is she married like I'm married, or is she MARRIED-married?
medium	Roz:   Hold on, Frasier. Cashmere for under 40 bucks? I'll take one in black. In medium. Wait, is that MEDIUM-medium or unrealistic-anorexic-model-medium?
money	He needs MONEY-money?
mother	I considered my mother's stepmother a relative. I never knew my mother's MOTHER-mother.
mother	Mrs. Garrett, Blair's housemother -- Mrs. Warner, Blair's MOTHER-mother.
move	Sami:   No, I mean MOVE-move. I mean move out of Salem.
movie	Kid 2:  A MOVIE-movie?
movie	During this pre-Christmas cinematic bang, when the multiplexes are bursting with animated fairy tales, event movies and bookish adaptations, you might find yourself with a craving for a real MOVIE-movie.
movie	It must be admitted that, for a MOVIE-movie, Infernal Affairs is subversively arty.
murray	A:   MURRAY-Murray!?
nervous	B:   Yeah, but, you know, not NERVOUS-nervous.
next	Kevin:   And it's weird, because I realized I was next. I mean, it's like I knew already. Well, I wasn't NEXT-next. That would be...
novel	Michael Enright:   Now, a true life novel. How is that different from a NOVEL-novel.
now	A:  Hey, NOW-now, man.
nuts	Caroline:   I know, but I didn't think you meant NUTS-nuts. I thought you meant raisin nipple nuts. Oh my god, I mean, she was just so convincing! I feel like a fool!
okay	B:   OKAY-okay, or "faking it through the worst heartbreak of my life" okay?
older	I think she's OLDER-older.
orange	She was wearing an orange shirt. But she was blind, so I don't think she knew that it was ORANGE-orange.
out	B:  Yeah? You're OUT-out? [i.e., legally released from the mental institution]
out	Do you feel, like, excited, Ange, today? Or because you're going to college, it doesn't feel like you're really OUT-out?
out	She's like gonna go OUT-out tonight.
over	'Cause you're not ready to let him [your ex-boyfriend] go. I think you know deep down, once you get your stuff back, you know, it's OVER-over.
over	Angie:   Is it OVER-over, like the time he got you a football for your birthday, or just over, like the time he thought your goldfish needed air?
over	Brittany:   No, this time it's really OVER-over. And as fellow cheerleaders, you have to swear on a stack of pompoms not to go to the dance with that two-timing, scum of the earth, Kevin.
pain	To some, pain implies growth. But how do we know when the growing pains stop and the PAIN-pains take over?
paper	I want PAPER-paper, the-kind-you-can-write-on paper.
party	Kenzie, this isn't a PARTY-party.
party	Well, it's not for you. It's a PARTY-party.
party	Elena:   Not a PARTY-party. Just hanging out. We'll get a few people in here to help get rid of this ugly wallpaper.
party	Kristen:   Honey, that's really sweet. But it's not really a PARTY-party. It's more of a small family get-together. So I think your friend might feel a little uncomfortable.
penny arcade	The Hollywood Reporter reports some pretty big news — there’s gonna be a movie based on a Penny Arcade comic. Not PENNY ARCADE-Penny Arcade ... but the New Kid spin-off they did not too long ago.
people	Tim:   D'you mean a lot of PEOPLE-people, or a lot of women-people?
personal	A:  No, I mean like PERSONAL-personal.
pin	No, I need a PIN-pin.
play	B:  If you're playing, it's like for PLAY-play. You know you ain't getting paid, right?
poker	Pacey:   Originally this was just POKER-poker, until I started kicking his ass. Then your friendly neighborhood co-worker decides to change the stakes on me, but I'm finished now, and, uh, we can just leave?
prison	What if they fail the test? Do they go to PRISON-prison?
problem	A:  Problem. PROBLEM-problem.
problem	B:  That is a PROBLEM-problem.
problem	He doesn't mean PROBLEM-problems.
prof	We had a guest prof, and a guy in the class was opening an e-mail attachment that cranked the volume up, and there's a sound attachment that yells out "Hey everyone, I'm looking at porno!" and the PROF-prof was just shaking his head in shame.
promise	Michael:   I PROMISE-promise.
rape	Rape? Raping you? Your father's brother RAPE-raped you?
really	I talk about it in the book, but I don't tell what REALLY-really happened.
red	A:   RED-red or tongue red?
regular	Employee:   REGULAR-regular?
relationship	I could never be with a guy in a RELATIONSHIP-relationship.
relationships	Shelagh Rogers:   Do you mean RELATIONSHIPS-relationships or just relationships?
retarded	Carolyn:  RETARDED-retarded.
rich	They are rich, of course; obscenely rich by the world's standards; but not RICH-rich, not New York City rich.
rich	You know what it's like, working with the rich all these years, not being rich ourselves - not RICH-rich.
rob	Jane:  It's supposed to be intense. If someone breaks into your house, they are not going to jazz-rob you. They're gonna to ROB-rob you or MURDER-murder you. Okay, I am doing this for your own good.
robbed	Actor:  Robbed? Like, ROBBED-robbed?
roz	Daphne:   Roz? You mean ROZ-Roz?
rush	Customer:  It's not a RUSH-rush.
salad	I'll make the tuna salad and you make the SALAD-salad.
seeing	Willow:   I mean ... not SEEING-seeing. Well, maybe. I don't know, it was inconclusive, and I didn't stick around to find out. Might have magicked my fist through a wall or something.
serious	Felicity:   No! I mean, not SERIOUS-serious.
shock	A:  No, SHOCK-shock. Real shock.
sick	I'm not SICK-sick. It's just that I had surgery two weeks ago.
slave	A:   Oh no, that was SLAVE-slaveing. This is wage-slaving.
smart	Brittany:   Oh, Kevvy, I only kissed Robert to get even with you for kissing Zoe, it didn't mean anything, and now I know you do love me and you really mean it when you say smart doesn't matter, although I think I'm smarter than you think I am, although I know I'm not smarter than the really SMART-smart people, so I forgive you! Kevvy? Kevvy?
sorry	Dylan:   You're sorry or you're SORRY-sorry?
sorry	Jez:   I'm SORRY-sorry.
special	A special relationship or a SPECIAL-special relationship.
split	Scott:   As in get out of here, or as in SPLIT-split?
steal	Rayaan:   I didn't STEAL-steal it. I just didn't pay.
steve	B:  You know, STEVE-Steve. Fiona's new Steve.
strip	Jim:  You mean like, STRIP-strip?
stuff	Lorelai:   No, STUFF-stuff.
surf	I like wind-surfing not SURF-surfing.
surprising	Interviewee:   Well, not SURPRISING-surprising.
talk	But just because a scripture says God's talking doesn't mean he's TALK-talking. People tend to take license with that detail. It's not always gonna be, "Hello, Jaye."
talk	In fact I barely talked to him. Not TALK-talked.
temple	Not in the TEMPLE-temple, but in a building next door to the temple, but still on temple grounds.
there	And it's there. Not just out there, but THERE-there.
thing	"A THING-thing."
thing	"A THING-thing? You mean, really?"
thing	"Okay, it was. It was definitely a THING-thing."
thing	"Kanga had a THING-thing/kissing thing with Finn Murphy yesterday afternoon and we're only hearing about it now?" Cricket sounded outraged.
thing	"That's no excuse. You could have e-mailed us, at least," said Cricket. "You are shockingly out of line, young lady. THING-things with stud-muffins that no one else knows about? What is the world coming to?"
thing	"Wait!" I held up my hand. "It's only a real and true THING-thing if the kissing was good."
thinking	B:  Like THINKING-thinking? That wasn't premeditated, I wasn't lying in wait. More like I was musing on the idea. Not, you know, dwelling. There were times I did dwell on you, about you, a little. But I wasn't seriously considering till the exact moment I did it. Or didn't do it.
together	Yeah, 'cause they're all together. Like, TOGETHER-together. Um, the blonde girl, that's Rosalie, and the big dark-haired guy, Emmett, they're, like, a thing. I'm not even sure that's legal.
together	Julie:   We're not...we're not TOGETHER-together. We're just...we're hanging out. A lot.
together	Becky:   Supposedly, Susan thought she saw John and Gina together, you know, like together. But they weren't TOGETHER-together, they were just studying together. But Susan might break up anyway.
together	Not TOGETHER-together. Just "get the potion" together.
together	Nick:   TOGETHER-together?
together	Chloe:   It's not like Philip and I are TOGETHER-together, it's -- we're just hanging out, seeing how things go.
together	Blair:   I know that you guys aren't TOGETHER-together, but when I walked in here just now, it's obvious that you still care about him. I'm right to say that? I mean, you do still care about Sam, right?
tonight	B:  Oh! Okay, tonight. TONIGHT-tonight?
tonight's	Chair:   No, TONIGHT'S-tonight's minutes.
top	Joey:   The TOP-top?
tre	B:   Which Tre? TRE-Tre?
truth	Jen:   OK, the TRUTH-truth, or the what-Dawson-wants-to-hear truth?
truth	Rosanna:   TRUTH-truth, or convenient-in-the-moment truth?
tub	So what are you looking for? A Jacuzzi-type thing? Or a TUB-tub?
ugly	B:   Marianne-of-Gilligan's-Island ugly, not Cornelius-of-Planet-of-the-Apes ugly. TV ugly, not UGLY-ugly.
ugly	[The actor in question, overhearing this, says afterwards something like "I've been called ugly before, but I've never been called UGLY-ugly!"]
van	Look at all the yellow vans on the road. Not vans like ours [i.e., minivans], but VAN-vans.
war	Henry Blake:  Look, folks. You've picked a very busy spot. The war comes through here. Well, not war in your war-fighting sense, but rather in your aftermath sense, which is still WAR-war.
white	Dressmaker:   Here's the skinny. We dressmakers have a very strict code, so I need to know, do you deserve to wear virginal white? Because if you don't, you'll have to wear an off-white, what we call a hussy white. So which will it be, WHITE-white?
wife	She's a WIFE-wife.
woody	Oh, WOODY-Woody. Oh well, listeners, this is an old friend of mine from back in Boston. Well, how you doin' there, you old cowpoke?
work	Wednesday is my WORK-work day.
work	Paige:   Well, between witch work and WORK-work, I just don't have any time any more.
work	Marina:   No, I mean, I don't mind, like, giving you a hand if you need one. I mean, it could be different from the whole punishment thing. You know, like actual WORK-work.
wrong	Grams:   Oh, well, I--I don't mean WRONG-wrong, it's just that we've always had... girls.
