Last updated: May 30, 2014.

Examples so far: 334

The examples
Foreign Exchange
[euphemistically asking for details of a date]
So tell me about it. Did you, uh, did you get a car?
I don't drive.
You know, a car with a "working engine"? You know? R-r-r-r-r. You know? A-CAR-a-car. A car that you could have sex with.

Wonderfalls
Trailer's moving. A lot. A-LOT-a-lot.

I like it quite a lot but not A-LOT-a-lot.

Girls
A:  Okay, that's Adam.
B:  He does sort of look like the original man.
A:  No, like my Adam. Like ADAM-Adam.

All my children
Jake:  You actually haven't, uh, given me a good enough reason yet.
Cara:  Um, being in a fake marriage to your brother -- that doesn't count or what?
Jake:  No, I mean after that.
Cara:  Oh, okay. After that, we've got the immigration problem. So who knows how long that's gonna last?
Jake:  AFTER THAT-after that. Like three years from now.
[extra contrastive stress on the that inside the first after that.]

Less than Kind
Sir, it ~ it ~ it will not happen again.
Well, it won't happen AGAIN-again.
[right stress pattern, but possibly just a semantically compositional sequence of adverbs]

I Heart Huckabees
Brad:   Okay. I said I get it, Bernie. Relax.
Vivian:  Passive-aggressive.
Brad:   Shut up.
Bernard:   AGGRESSIVE-aggressive.

Felicity
Felicity:   But...performing that song at a club where our mutual friends hang out? I mean that's like passive-aggressive or something.
Julie:   No, it's not.
Felicity:   You're right, it's AGGRESSIVE-aggressive.

AIR-CANADA-Air-Canada or Canadian-Air Canada?
[heard at an airport. For some time after Air Canada bought Canadian Airlines, ticketing services had been merged but the check-in counters hadn't. You had to know which pre-merger airline used to run your "Air Canada" flight in order to get into the right check-in line at the airport. ]
[NLLT example: 38e]

Student:   I'm all done.
Professor:   ALL-DONE-all-done?

Being Erica
A:  This past summer Barbie got completely smashed at Matty Gibson's party. And word is, her and Allan Milley went all the way.
B:  ALL-THE-WAY-all-the-way?
A:  Mm-hmm. She was nuts about him.

Significant Others
Cam:  And it turns out my two best friends have been getting it on for a while. Me, I just found out.
Jane:  Nell and Henry? Really?
Cam:  I'm alone. I mean, ALONE-alone. I haven't seen anyone since you.

Does she live in AMHERST-Amherst? Das ist ein kleines Dorf. [That's a small village].
[heard in Frankfurt]

Away We Go
Well, where would we go?
I don't know. We could go anywhere we want.
ANYWHERE-anywhere?

Sounds Like Canada
Jian Ghomeshi:   Neil Young may be more of an ARTIST-artist than a song-artist.
[explaining why Neil Young, while he deserves to be on a list of essential artists, might not deserve to have a song on a list of 50 essential songs.]

That's not AUCKLAND-Auckland, is it?
[about an ad for flights to Auckland that seem too cheap to be true]
[NLLT example: 1e]

10 Items or Less
Driver:  So you're back! You're fuckin' back in business. How does it feel?
Actor:  Well, I wouldn't exactly call this "back". Not BACK-back, you know? Not like comeback back. Just a little independent thing.

Furry Vengeance
A:  Oh, Dan, wild turkeys. Wild turkeys. Dan, stop. Hey. You can't eat that in front of them. Put it down. It could be their mom.
B:  How do they know it's turkey bacon and not BACON-bacon?

Is 37 grams [of saturated fat] good or bad? And even if we have an intuition that it's bad, we'd wonder if it was "BAD-bad" (like cigarettes) or "normal bad" (like a cookie or a milk shake).
Chip and Dan Heath, Made to Stick, Random House, 2007

Plus, there's a lot of really bad fiction out there -- not just wish-it-was-bad fiction that's actually really good, but BAD-bad fiction.
Curtis Sittenfeld on new book by Nell Freudenberger, Salon Magazine (Books), September 4, 2003

It's a Disaster
An evening bag or a BAG-bag?

Do you want to go to the BANK-bank?
[as opposed to an ATM]

teenager's diary, read on radio
[name] is coming down for the weekend and I want to be with him -- BE-be with him.

Port Charles
Rafe:   I'm thinking of the beach.
Alison:   OK, a beach. OK, well, what kind of a beach?
Rafe:   It's a -- you know, the -- a BEACH-beach.
Alison:   "A BEACH-beach." Oh, wow.
Rafe:   What?
Alison:   You are seriously challenged in the fantasy department.

Oh, that's BEACON-STREET-Beacon-Street.
[The same street name often is used for totally unrelated streets in different towns in the Boston area. The speaker is being given directions home, and has just figured out that the Beacon Street in West Newton is in fact a continuation of the famous Beacon Street in Boston.]
[NLLT example: 9c]
[NLLT example: 37c]

What I Like about You
Younger sister:   You can't be friends with somebody you've been with.
Older sister:   Yes, you... Wait. What do you mean by "been with"?
Friend:   Belated congrats.
Older sister:   No, I haven't BEEN-WITH-been-with [with air quotes]
. I mean emotionally, you know?

Gideon's Crossing
A doctor:   When you say she's getting better, do you mean BETTER-better?
[NLLT example: 33a]

Next Day Air
Shavoo:  Brody tells me he's got some bitches at his crib. He want me to come check out.
B:  Shit. That's good. You know me, I'm always down to fuck some hoes.
Shavoo:  Stop, man. I'm not talking about those kind of bitches. I'm talking about BITCHES-bitches.
B:  Ah! Some bricks [of cocaine].
Shavoo:  [warning cough]
There's certain words you just can't throw around up in the whip.

Dawson's Creek
Audrey:   At another restaurant?
Pacey:   No, on a boat.
Audrey:   A restaurant on a boat. That's kind of weird.
Pacey:   No, a BOAT-boat, the kind that sails around the world and takes me with it.

When you were a kid and you had a dog, did you ever try eating a bone? Not one of those BONE-bones, but a Milkbone?

A:   I've been invited to go bowling tonight.
B:   BOWLING-bowling?
[This prompted a discussion of the different types of bowling found in Winnipeg.]
[NLLT example: 17]
[NLLT example: 36c]

Just Shoot Me
Eliot:   When was the last time you had a boyfriend?
Maya:   You mean a BOYFRIEND-boyfriend?
[NLLT example: 38a]

...after we had finally BROKE-IT-OFF-broke-it-off, I found out he had bought me an engagement ring.
[talking about going through repeated cycles of breaking up with someone and then getting back together ]
[NLLT example: 43b]

Off the map
[a doctor asking help for a fraternity brother]
He's my brother. Well, not my BROTHER-brother.

Is he like a BUSINESSMAN-businessman? Or is this like when I used to sell lemonade and call myself a businessman?
weirdosofwinnipeg.blogspot.com, May 30, 2008

[Waiter to a customer who has ordered carrot-cake]
Is that carrot cheesecake or carrot CAKE-cake?

New York Times, April 11, 2004
Automakers are reluctant to admit to making what designers call CAR-cars, the basic family sedans bought by millions of typical Americans. Instead, they prefer to draw attention to fanciful design studies that project fun and freedom ... But CAR-cars do still exist...

Natalie Portman, quoted in the Boston Globe, November 28, 2004
First of all, I'm not like a CELEBRITY-celebrity; I don't get recognized when I'm walking down the street.

I only have CHANGE-change.
[coins as opposed to bills]

The Whole Nine Yards
[Jimmy is a notorious mob hitman from Chicago, now hiding under an assumed identity. His neighbour Nicholas is desperate not to let Jimmy suspect he's recognized him. ]
Jimmy:   Where are you from?
Nicholas:   Chicago. Not CHICAGO-Chicago. I was born there but I really don't know anything about Chicago anymore.

He's a Christian, I mean a CHRISTIAN-Christian.
[not just a Christian as distinct from a Jew, but a believing, practising one]
[NLLT example: 36d]

[mother to son about a friend]
Is he in your swim-class or your CLASS-class?

Jumping the Broom
[voice-over of a woman who is driving]
And God, because it's obvious that I don't know how to spot a human being, could you please make it clear who you want me to be with? I mean CLEAR-clear, the kind of clear that...
[a man's body hits her windshield]

18 to Life
Mother:  We love that you love Tom. It's just we don't want you to become a cliché.
Father:  Exactly. You guys should be driving across Mexico on a motorbike.
Jessie:  Also a cliché.
Mother:  Reading Kerouac, thumbing rides across the country.
Jessie:  CLICHÉ-cliché.

Hyperion Bay
[dialogue between a married couple, recently separated and now living apart]
A:   Maybe you'd like to come in and have some coffee?
B:   Yeah, I'd like that.
A:   Just COFFEE-coffee, no double meanings.
[NLLT example: 12]

Dawson's Creek
Dawson:   Okay. But you said you thought about it...
Joey:   Yes, thought, Dawson.
Dawson:   You actually considered-thought-about-it or just ordinarily thought about it?
Joey:   What difference does it make?
Dawson:   I'm a teenage guy! It makes all the difference in the world.
Joey:   I considered and thought about it.
Dawson:   Well, that's good. Considered's very good.
...
Dawson:   So when you say you've considered it... you mean thought-about-it considered-it or just CONSIDERED-IT-considered-it.
Joey:   Would you just shut up and row!
[NLLT example: 27b]
[NLLT example: 41b]
[NLLT example: 84d]

We're not one of those COUPLE-couples.
[female, around 30, explaining that she and her partner often socialize separately]
[NLLT example: 31b]

She wasn't a fancy cow, a Hereford or Black Angus or something, just a COW-cow.
Russell Banks, "Cow-Cow", short story in The Angel on the Roof, 2000.
[NLLT example: 3c]

Who needs street-cred? I don't even have CRED-cred.
[i.e., he can't get a loan]

Home Improvement
Tim:   Alright! Alright! Alright! Let's steer clear of the meat products for a minute. Let's talk about real emotion. Crying. [Jim and Kyle suddenly look more uncomfortable]
When was the last time you cried. Jim?
Jim:   You mean CRIED-cried, or cried because something heavy fell on you? Once I dropped this spinet piano on my foot.
[NLLT example: 32b]

Outsourced
Jerry:  I know I wasn't the perfect husband, but is it a crime to pay another woman to give you the affection that your wife was withholding from you?
Todd:  Yes.
Jerry:  I know it was a crime. But is it a CRIME-crime?
Rajiv:  YES-yes.

Port Charles
Jack:   How would you like to be my partner in crime?
Alison:   Crime? Ramsey, I don't do crime.
Jack:   No, whoa, it's not, like, CRIME-crime. It's crime -- well --

Wizards of Waverly Palace, the Movie
That's not DAD-Dad. That's party-party-bam-bam-nachos-for-everyone Dad.

Dead Like Me
Doris:   Feel like a little lunch, Millie?
Georgia/Millie:   Ah, actually I have plans today.
Doris:   Really?
Georgia/Millie:   Yeah, it's kind of a lunch date.
Doris:   Oh.
Georgia/Millie:   I mean, not a DATE-date.

"It's just that ... if this isn't a DATE-date, and it feels like one to me, then I thought I ought to tell you.
Nick Hornby, About a Boy, 1998, page 21

Frasier
Martin:   Uh, you know, I think there's been a bit of a misunderstanding here. I didn't mean this to be a DATE-date, more of a friendship thing. You know, I really enjoy your company...

Dawson's Creek
Andie:   Don't you think that when you show up with Ethan at the prom, they're gonna kind of figure out that he's your date?
Jack:   He's not my DATE-date. We're just going as friends. He calls it taking it to the next step towards self-acceptance and actualization. Whatever the hell that means.

As the World Turns
Lucy:   A DATE-date? I'm jealous. I've never been on one.
Bonnie:   Our first official.

Days of Our Lives
Philip:   Oh, come on, chloe. I know we're a long way from all of that. Look, I just want to take you out, okay? Just hang out with you some night. Okay, it doesn't have to be at night. It doesn't have to be a DATE-date. We could just hang out some afternoon -- no big deal.
Chloe:   Okay, low pressure. Not movies, not dinner. That leaves us with... bowling?

Days of Our Lives
Jennifer:   It's not a joke? I mean, you're asking me out for real on an actual date?
Brandon:   On an actual date. Not like the last time.
Jennifer:   No, I know. The last time, you were rescuing me, but this would be, like, a DATE-date.

Death at a Funeral
A:   I mean, look at him, Aaron. He's dead.
B:   You mean, like DEAD-dead?
A:   Is there any other kind of dead, Aaron?

Zombieland
In those moments when you're not sure the undead are really DEAD-dead, don't get all stingy with your bullets. I mean, one more clean shot to the head, and this lady could have avoided becoming a human Happy Meal.

Dead Like Me
In case I haven't been clear, I'm un-dead, not DEAD-dead. All those biological urges still apply.

What's the difference between brain-dead and DEAD-dead?
Michael Enright, host on national CBC radio show, June 2000

Red Dwarf
You're not dead, are you? I mean, you're dead, but you're not DEAD-dead, because you're still here, aren't you?

Nadine
Nadine:   You don't have to worry about that, he's dead.
Vernon:   You mean DEAD-dead?

Nobody's doing DEAF-deaf ed [education]. They're all doing deaf-and-hard-of-hearing ed.

The New Twenty
That could be great. I mean, I haven't DECIDED-decided, but that could be great.

Dickie Roberts, Former Child Star
Grace:   Yeah, okay, meanwhile, there's this woman, Esmerelda, she's Mr. Blake's housekeeper, and he falls madly in love with her, right? And then she dies.
Dickie:   Wait. She DIE-dies? I thought this was a happy movie.

Seven Girlfriends
Roman:   Or maybe I should take you out to dinner tonight.
Hannah:   DINNER-dinner?
Roman:   Yeah.

Joan of Arcadia
Although Luke did this awesome dive off the high board, which wasn't really a DIVE-dive, it was more like Will Farrell falling out of a plane.

The Big Bang Theory
Physics PhD:  She's a doctor.
Neighbour:  A DOCTOR-doctor, or a you kind of doctor?

Take Charley, for example. He has always associated with the learned, the gentle, the literate, and the reasonable both in France and in America. And Charley is no more like a DOG-dog than he is like a cat. His perceptions are sharp and delicate and he is a mind-reader. I don't know that he can read the thoughts of other dogs, but he can read mine.
John Steinbeck, Travels with Charley; 1961; p. 98 of Bantam edition
[NLLT example: 3e]

Pushing Daisies
His girlfriend's a doll. Not like you're a doll. She's a DOLL-doll, like life-sized and plastic.

The Simpsons
Marge:   Actually, we're done.
Bart:   DONE-done.
[NLLT example: 36e]

Grace Under Fire
My door is always open for you.
...
I don't mean my DOOR-door. I mean my metaphorical door. As in "door to my heart", "door to the community"...

Would you like some wine? Would you like a DRINK-drink?

Do you want coffee or a DRINK-drink?
["exclusive or" intonation]

Duct Tape Forever
Stiles:   Let's have a drink to toast your new life, Harold.
[Stiles begins filling Harold's glass from a metal flask.]
Harold:   Oh, a DRINK-drink.
[Later...]
Harold:   It was a DRINK-drink.
[Harold passes out.]

Episodes
Hey, Snuggy. I wasn't asking you to DRIVE-ME-HOME-drive-me-home. I have a boyfriend. We live together.

Joan of Arcadia
Joan:   I'm kind of worried about him.
Sylvia:   Why?
Joan:   He seems to think that he's dying.
Sylvia:   He is dying.
Joan:   You mean, like, DYING-dying?
Sylvia:   There's another kind?

Larry Summers is not just an economist but, as one of his critics put it, an ECONOMIST-economist.
New York Times, August 24, 2003, page 32

Julie and Julia
A:  Explain to me how you've never eaten an egg in your whole life.
B:  I've had eggs in, like, cakes. Never had an EGG-egg. I was a very wilful child.

We sat there, day and night, trading places, Beth and I, with Toph downstairs usually, Beth and I sitting, sleeping there, sometimes draped over her, waiting for the near-end, so we could gather and then wait for the END-end.
Dave Eggers, "The Orphans are Coming!" The New Yorker, 18&25/10/99

Everybody Loves Raymond
[Robert tells his conservative mother- and father-in-law that they'll be sleeping in Robert's and his wife's room.]
Robert:  We have a wonderful bed. I think you'll enjoy it. Not ENJOY-enjoy. Sleep. Enjoyable sleep.

Neon Rider
Hey kid, thanks for the escort. [looks embarrassed]
I don't mean ESCORT-escort.

Angel
Kate:   The evil thing wasn't an evil thing?
Angel:   Well, it was an evil thing in terms of that world. It just wasn't an EVIL-evil thing.
Kate:   There are not-evil evil things?
[later]

Angel:   You okay? [Kate is trying not to cry]
Never trust an EVIL-evil thing.

Dick
Kissinger:   That's OK. I'm familiar with these young ladies. Well, I'm not FAMILIAR-familiar... I know them.
[NLLT example: 66b]

There's a guy who collects fans. These are not sports fans but FANS-fans
CBC radio
[NLLT example: 32a]

As the World Turns
Barbara:   Me, too. How would you feel if I managed to cook your favorite dinner?
Will:   My FAVORITE-favorite?
Barbara:   FAVORITE-favorite.

Life Unexpected
Baze:  I still have feelings for Cate.
...
Cate:  What do you mean that you have feelings? What feelings?
Baze:  Like, FEELINGS-feelings. You know, like ~ like the kind people feel.

Seinfeld
Jerry:   Who, who, who do you think would win in a fight between me and ah, gorgeous George here.
Elaine:   You mean in a real FIGHT-fight?

The FINAL-final copy has to be done by August.

We have a FIREPLACE-fireplace in the living room.
[as opposed to the bricked-up fireplace in the speaker's kitchen]
[NLLT example: 38b]

Q
You lost me a bit with the pan-flute. ... I guess it was a FLUTE-flute.

A:   Do they have food over there?
B:   Sure, they've got chocolate over there but not real FOOD-food.

Kit Reed, Enclave, Tor, New York, 2009, page 131
... and we'll be free. Well, not FREE-free, but free in cyberspace, even though we're locked up here.

Is he French or FRENCH-French?
[French-from-France as opposed to French-from-Canada]
[NLLT example: 1c]

The Five Senses
Police officer:   Any children?
Suspect:   Yes. One. She lives with her mother.
Police officer:   You're French?
Suspect:   Yes.
Police officer:   FRENCH-French?
Suspect:   FRENCH-French. From Belgium, originally.
Police officer:   Why'd you leave France?
Suspect:   I wanted a change. I thought I'd like the winters.

The Big Bang Theory
So by "friend" do you mean FRIEND-friend, gay friend, or "ex-boyfriend who you're Platonic with but still might have a thing for you" friend?

Snow Cake
A:   I'm going to meet an old friend.
B:   Hmm. A FRIEND-friend friend or a FRIEND-friend?

Felicity
Julie:   Because I had boyfriends. Lots of them in high school. But for reasons too complicated and too big for this subway car, I, um, didn't have a lot of FRIEND-friends. Girlfriends.
[NLLT example: 31f]

Doonesbury
So I would say that the president and Mr. DeLay are friends, but not FRIENDS-friends, if you will.

All My Children
Bianca:   Frankie was who she was. And I was in love with her. But you and I are just friends.
Maggie:   Oh, so now I'm -- now I've been downgraded to "just friend."
Bianca:   No, FRIENDS-friends -- real friends. That's -- that's huge. Maggie, it's better this way.

Snakes and Ladders
And he's funny. FUNNY-funny, not jokey-funny.

Gilmore Girls
Lorelai:  Life is a funny funny thing huh?
Sookie:   Yeah, I love that Jim Carey.
Lorelai:  What?
Sookie:   Jim Carey. He's just -- he's just funny.
Lorelai:  He is funny, but I don't mean FUNNY-funny. I'm being philosophical.
Sookie:   Oh, very serious face -- Jean Paul Sartre. [making a somber face]


I Heart Huckabees
A:   Right. Well, when we did the Garth benefit in Dallas, we put the $10,000 donors up here.
B:   Wow, Garth. Was that GARTH-Garth, or Chris Garth?
A:   That's classic Garth. The best.

A:   That's gay.
B:   Is that happy-gay or GAY-gay?
[There is no real lexical ambiguity here anymore. The line is just being used for laughs.]

Virtual Sexuality
Justine/Jake:   Geeky's good. Geeky's very trendy...
Chas:   There's cool-geeky and there's GEEKY-geeky. I'm only ever going to be GEEKY-geeky.
[NLLT example: 36f]

Lesbian Vampire Killers
Jimmy:   I've come up with a ten-point plan for getting her [Jimmy's ex-girlfriend] back.
Fletch:   What, like revenge?
Jimmy:   No, getting her back. Not GETTING HER BACK-getting her back. Getting her back. Number one: take her on holiday.

Euro-trip
A:  She makes every girl from our high school look like a walrus.
B:  I'm a girl.
A:  No, I mean GIRL-girls

Boys Don't Cry
Lana:   What were you like before all this? Were you like me? Like a GIRL-girl?
Brandon:   Yeah. Like a long time ago. And then I guess I was just like a boy-girl. And then I was just a jerk.

... and here are the GLOVE-gloves.
[real boxing gloves as opposed to "bag" gloves (smallish practice gloves)]
[NLLT example: 26]
[NLLT example: 31a]

Assassination of a High School President
A:   You wanna go to homecoming with me?
B:   Well, not like GO-go. I mean, not like for real. It's just everyone already has a date.

E. Lockhart, The Boyfriend List, Delacorte Press, 2005, p 193
"And, um, I--can we go somewhere?" ...
...
"I don't mean GO SOMEWHERE-go somewhere," I said, remembering that he surely thought I was a slut, and after all, last time the two of us had been alone we'd been all over each other. "I mean, outside on the steps."

Raising Hope
A:  Hey, meet Kevin [a chicken]. We'll be eating him tonight. Accompanied by some very special Incan tea.
B:  That's what the Incans drink to worship their sun god.
C:  Uh, yeah. I'm more of a GOD-God worshipper.

Stargate SG-1
A:   So then who's coming through the Stargate?
B:   Gods.
A:   Huh?
B:   Not as in GOD-God. Ra played a god, the sun god.
[NLLT example: 8]

Everwood
Dr. Brown:   Oh, it's nothing. It's no thing. I told Tom Keyes I would go with him to a singles mixer.
Nina:   Oh, that's, um, uh...
Dr. Brown:   That's, uh, what?
Nina:   That's good. I'm glad the two of you are hanging out. He's a good influence on you.
Dr. Brown:   He's not influencing anything. I'm not even really going. I mean, I'm going but I'm not GOING-going.
Nina:   Ah.
Dr. Brown:   Can I go now?
Nina:   GO-go, or just GO-go?

The Darkest Hour
[after hiding from alien creatures who seem to have left the building]
You think they're gone? Like GONE-gone?

As the World Turns
Rosanna:   Annual event? Well, how about you skip it this year and join me for a ride in a vintage Cabot Grande Deluxe? If you're good, I'll let you drive.
Craig:   GOOD-good or bad good?

... GREEN-TEA-green-tea...
[in the context of drinking green tea with rice in it]
[NLLT example: 38d]

That 70s show
[backstage after a concert]
Donna:  Thank you so much for the interview, Ted.
Ted Nugent:  You're very welcome. You wanna stick around? I'll let you touch the guitar.
Donna:  Really? All right! Wait, you mean your GUITAR-guitar, right?

The Green Hornet
Gas guns? Why not GUN-guns? Our enemies have GUN-guns.

Chuck
Maybe with a trank-gun, but not a GUN-gun. I hate GUN-guns.

"I'm definitely reclaiming the feminine aspect of masculinity," [Gregory] Scratch explained. But he's also clearly equally keen to juice up the feminine cliches of domesticity with a jolt of testosterone. Those seductively macho paint jobs aren't meant purely as irony: "I'm probably as GUY-guy as a guy gets....I've got sideburns and I love muscle cars."
[from an article on art produced by male artists based on the former domestic domain of women ]
Blake Gopnik, The Globe and Mail, 25/03/00

Six Days, Seven Nights
(1998 movie starring Anne Heche (as Robin Munroe) and Harrison Ford (as Quinn Harris)) [The two characters have just realized that they are shipwrecked on a deserted island.]
Robin:   Aren't you one of those guys?
Quinn:   What guys?
Robin:   Those GUY-guys, y'know? Those guys with skills?
Quinn:   Skills?
Robin:   Yeah, you send them out into the wilderness with a pocket knife and a Q-tip and they build you a shopping mall. You can't do that?
[NLLT example: 31g]

[after using the word "guys" generically]
Nicholas Campbell:   Sorry. I don't mean just mean men. I mean guys of both sexes.
Shelagh Rogers:   GUYS-guys.
Sounds Like Canada, November 20, 2003

Guiding Light
Marah:   They are moving into Ross and Blake's old place, and Remy's going to be there, too.
Reva:   Three guys and you?
Marah:   Well, they're not like GUYS-guys. They're more like brothers.

Buffy the Vampire Slayer
Willow:   Okay. Now, he's had his 2:00 feeding, and, uh, after sunrise, if he forgets where his clothes are, they're on top of the file cabinet in his cage. [indicates the cage]
I put those towels up for privacy.
Xander:   Uh, no worries. I can handle the Oz Full Monty. I mean, not HANDLE-handle, like "hands to flesh" handle.

Red Dwarf
[on a confused situation caused by time travel]
Hey, it hasn't happened, has it? It has will-have-going-to-have-happened happened. But it hasn't actually HAPPENED-happened yet... actually.
[NLLT example: 32c]

Enough
A:   What are you reading now?
Slim:  You know Finnegans Wake by James Joyce? My friend told me it's the hardest book in the English language. I mean, not the HARDEST-hardest, but the hardest one that you can actually read. I thought to myself, if I can get through it, I could probably read the rest.
[NLLT example: 63b]

Should I wear a HAT-hat?
[as opposed to a yarmulke]
[NLLT example: 3d]

Breakout Kings
This guy hates me. Not like *you hate me. He HATES-ME-hates-me.

Firefly
Reverend Book:  I wish I could help. I mean, I don't wanna help -- not HELP-help, but -- not with the theiving, but -- I do feel awfully useless.

Eat, Pray, Love (movie)
A:  Is the guru here?
B:  She's always here.
A:  I know, but is she HERE-here?
B:  She's at her ashram in New York.

Is he HERE-here or elsewhere-here?
[after being told that a guest speaker from out of town is "here"]

Bunheads
A:  Wait. Josh has high cholesterol? He's fifteen!
B:  It's not HIGH-high, but it ticked up slightly, and he does have a family history.

It is part of the HIGHWAY-highway, not the information highway.
[referring to Goodyear Tire & Rubber Company in comparison with communication/software companies]
Malcolm Gladwell, "Clicks & Mortar", The New Yorker, 6/12/99
[NLLT example: 84a]

Arrested Development
George Michael:   So you think he's gonna announce it on the boat?
Michael:   Yeah, absolutely. It's his retirement party. Plus, he's been dropping a lot of hints.
George Michael:   What kind of hints?
Michael:   It's funny. It's not a HINT-hint, but he has been calling me "pardner".

Is it biblical history or HISTORY-history?
Michael Enright, host on national CBC radio show, March 2000

Port Charles
Kevin: Hives!
Lucy: Who?
Kevin: I -- I'm breaking out in hives!
Lucy: Hives? You mean -- you mean hives?
Kevin: Yes!
Lucy: Wait, like HIVE-hives?
Kevin: Yes!

Robson Arms
Daughter:  Just forget it. I'm going to go home.
Mother:  Fine. I'll be down in a minute.
Daughter:  No. I'm going HOME-home. Dad's place. Happy now?

... things have got so bad that I decide to go home... HOME-home, Mum and Dad home, congealing gravy and Songs of Praise home.
Nick Hornby, High Fidelity

Gilmore Girls
Lorelai:  Ugh. I couldn't stay where I am if I wanted. Mia is selling the inn. And that hit me hard too, maybe harder than the other thing. I'm gonna be without a home.
Luke:   What do you mean? This is your home.
Lorelai:  No, I mean a HOME-home. A memory home. The inn is where Rory took her first step. It's where I took my first step. It's more of a home to me more than my parents' house ever was.

Guiding Light
Cassie:   No, it's just these houses that we're picking. We're picking them because they have large rooms for parties...
Richard:   Right.
Cassie:   You know, diplomats can be shuffled in and out, security precautions.
Richard:   These are all necessary concerns, darling.
Cassie:   I know that, for an ambassador's residence, but not for a HOME-home. I just really want a home, Richard. I want to be able to walk around in my bathrobe and not have to worry about it. I want the kids to be able to leave their toys all over the place, not worrying about some prime minister slipping on it.

Port Charles
Livvie:   Then what's the problem? The falls are really beautiful this time of year, and we can cross over to Toronto. I took out plenty of cash.
Rafe:   OK, don't get me wrong. The getting married part -- that's what we both want. But leaving town?
Livvie:   Why not? I mean, I only lived here a few years. It's not my HOME-home, and it's not really your home, either.

You like it HOT-hot, eh? You like it really hot?
[talking about the weather]

Veronica Mars
[A teenager throwing a party greets some guests.]
This isn't actually my HOUSE-house. It's one of the model homes in my old man's cheesy new subdivision.

Lost Girl
Bo:  Speaking of family... your stepfather?
Kenzi:  He didn't HURT-ME-hurt-me or anything.

Valentine's Day
But we gotta hustle. They're flying in right now.
I'm always hustling, baby.
I don't know. But I'm telling ~ Like, HUSTLE-hustle.
Like, no, don't dilly-dally, okay?

Princess Protection (2009)
I didn't mean it like that. I didn't mean I-HATE-YOU-I-hate-you.

Adam Rex, Fat Vampire: A never coming of age tale
"...And maybe Sejal wants a chaperone on our first date — I don't know how Indians do things."
"I'm Indian," said Kyle, their third partner. "I don't need a chaperone on a date."
Doug rounded on him. "Sejal's INDIAN-Indian, Kyle. You were born in Scranton."

"My eyes are old and tired, my neurons weary of the cool logic of AI analysis -- indulge me."
"INDULGE-ME-indulge-me, or you're busted fool, now indulge me?"
"That kind of thing."
Justina Robson, Keeping It Real, Gollancz, 2006, p. 90

Home Improvement
Felix:   Tim! I'd be careful. That's instant glue you're using.
Tim:   It's not like INSTANT-instant.
[Tim's hand gets stuck to the inside of the tank. Tim pulls at his hand but can't get it free. The phone starts to ring. Tim looks to Felix.]

[NLLT example: 66a]

2 Broke Girls
A:  That was intense.
B:  Intense good or intense bad.
A:  INTENSE-intense.

Ally McBeal
GT:   Not INTERESTED-interested, like I'm interested in pursuing something interesting, but... It was fun being in your company again, and.. Ally figured I was setting the two of you up for my own...

Love Don't Cost a Thing
A:   You know, if they catch you staring like that, they're gonna send the jocks down here to kick our asses.
B:   No, they won't. We're invisible.
C:   Invisible?
B:   Not INVISIBLE-invisible. Just invisible to them.

My Sister's Keeper
Daughter:  We did it, okay? We did it and now he won't call me back.
...
Mother:  What do you mean, "did it"? You did IT-it?
Daughter:  No, but we did some stuff, okay?

Caroline in the City
Caroline:   Look, when I saw Julia and Richard together, I was jealous. Not jealous like "Hey, they could be a couple and I'm not seeing anyone" jealous, but JEALOUS-jealous, you know what I mean?
Del:   Yeah, JEALOUS-jealous.
Caroline:   Exactly!

Treme
Desiree:  Difference between a gig and a job, Antoine. You gotta get a job.
Antoine:  I got a job. I'm with Kermit.
Desiree:  That's a gig, ...
...
Desiree:  Get a JOB-job, God damn it.

I had a JOB-job once.
[as opposed to an academic job]
[NLLT example: 3f]

When a Man Loves a Woman
[A pilot is trying to explain to his daughter why his job is threatened. ]
Father:   They're trying to bring in kids.
Daughter:   Kids can't fly planes.
Father:   Not KID-kids, men-kids.
[NLLT example: 31h]

Sounds Like Canada
[interview about divorce counselling]
In many of these situations, you're not just dealing with KIDS-kids, you're dealing with adult kids.

Family Biz
Uh, Avalon, when you said kilt, I didn't think you actually meant a KILT-kilt. I don't know what I was thinking.

Just a Little Harmless Sex
A:   He kissed me.
B:   A KISS-kiss?

Pushing Daisies
How will you know if your saliva's compatible unless you KISS-HER-kiss-her?

The Hot Chick
A:  When was the last time you kissed her?
B:  You mean kiss her, or KISS-HER-kiss-her?

Gilmore Girls
Emily:   Lorelai, Rory: Richard and I have separated.
Lorelai:   And?
Emily:   What do you mean "and"? That's not enough? You need some sort of mob-related offing to make it interesting?
Lorelai:   No, Mom, that's plenty. It's just we already knew.
Emily:   Rory didn't.
Rory:   Well, I mean, I didn't KNOW-know.

Hemlock Grove
It's weird. I knew her. I mean, I didn't KNOW-HER-know-her. But I'd see her at parties and stuff. She liked my car.

I mean, I know him, but I don't KNOW-HIM-know-him.
[him reduced to a syllabic [m]]
[NLLT example: 41c]

I Really Hate My Job
Abi:  He's Danny Huston. I mean, what is not to love?
Alice:  I don't know him.
Abi:  People don't love movie stars because they KNOW-THEM-know-them.

The Hour
Julie Benz:  And I go over and I give this man a big, giant bear-hug, and I'm like, "Oh my God, what are you doing here? I haven't seen you since..." And I realize I don't know him. And it's Matthew McConaughey. And he's hugging me right back. And I'm like, "Oh my God, I don't know you. I mean, I know you, but I don't KNOW-YOU-know-you like I thought I knew you."

The Sixth Man
Kenny:   Nothing, just loosening up. Doing a little bit of kong-chi.
A:   Kong-chi?
B:   What the hell does kong-chi mean, huh?
Antoine:   Yeah. What the hell does kong-chi mean?
Kenny:   Kong-chi!
Antoine:   Huh?
Kenny:   You know, KONG-CHI-kong-chi. It's an ancient oriental artform of loosening up.
[NLLT example: 18b]

The Dollhouse
A (to C)::  Is her body language telling you she's innocent?
B::  No, her LANGUAGE-language is telling her she's innocent.

Raising Hope
Virginia:  The gas bill cannot be overdue. I always go into the check cashing place nextdoor to the pharmacy and I pay it while I'm waiting for them to refill Maw Maw's prescriptions. And I always remember to get her new pills when I have to go into the bathroom cupboard for a tampon. And since my friend has not arrived yet, the gas bill cannot be late.
Gas man:  It says here you're two weeks late.
Virginia:  Oh, good Lord! I'm two weeks late!
Burt:  You mean, LATE-late? Like LATE-late?

The Family Guy
A:   I'm late, Lois.
B:   Well if you didn't spend so much time on your hair...
A:   No, I mean LATE-late!
[NLLT example: 16]

Will and Grace
Will:   Yeah, well, I'll--I'll wait. I'm gonna wait.
Grace:   No. Eat without me. I'm gonna be LATE-late.
Will:   LATE-late? Why, why, why, why, why?

Dawson's Creek
Audrey:   Joey? Did you check out the leak in the bathroom?
Joey:   What leak?
[Joey suddenly realizes Audrey is trying to get her alone for a conversation and plays along.]
Joey:   The LEAK-leak!
[Audrey drags Joey into the bathroom.]
[NLLT example: 18a]

Breakout Kings
Man:  I hate it when you leave.
Convict:  Okay. I'll come back later.
Man:  No. When you LEAVE-leave. You know, when they take you.

Dan for Mayor
Dan:  Look, this was my idea and I'm going to get it done on my own terms. Now, I think you should leave.
Claire:  Pretend leave or LEAVE-leave?

Dan for Mayor
Pretend-leave or LEAVE-leave?

Are you LEAVING-leaving?
[as opposed to just stepping out for a moment]
[NLLT example: 4a]

News Radio
Dave:   You're leaving the station?
Lisa:   No. No. I'm not LEAVING-leaving.
[NLLT example: 32e]

All My Children
Ryan:   Why's your stuff on the bed? You leaving?
Kendall:   Yeah. And I want to thank you for letting me stay here as long as you did. I mean, I really -- never mind.
Ryan:   So, like, you're LEAVING-leaving? Leaving town?
Kendall:   No such luck.

Buffy the Vampire Slayer
Tara:   Oh! No, I-I said that all wrong. It was nothing. Willow and Anya were sort of fighting, and then Xander kind of snapped at both of them and he left.
Buffy:  [alarmed]
He left? Xander left Anya?
Tara:  [frowning]
Ummm ... no, not LEFT-HER-left-her, he just left. It was only a little thing, it--

I've actually thought about doing more LETTER-letter writing.
[as opposed to e-mail]

All I Want
Jane:   I want you to write me a letter.
Jones:   A letter?
Jane:   Yeah. Like the ones you write to your girlfriends. But just a LETTER-letter, not a love-letter.

The Green Hornet
I LIKE-like her.

Suburgatory
I thought you LIKE-liked me in a different way than that Chinese family that made the dim sun.

Life with Derek
Casey:  You are so wrong. Like I would ever LIKE-like one of your friends!

Life with Derek
A:  I think I like you.
B:  Well, I hope you like me. We hang out every day.
A:  No. I mean, I, like, LIKE-like you.
B:  Oh, that's a lot of like's.

The Wackness (2008)
Stepfather::   Do you like him?
Stephanie::   I don't know. What do you care?
Stepfather::   Do you LIKE-like him?
Stephanie::   Maybe, yeah.

Dawson's Creek
Joey:   So, in his own LIKE-like way, he was just freaked out because she liked him back.

Seinfeld
Voice:   Oh, I like Jerry a lot.
Elaine: You mean LIKE-like?

Daria
Quinn:   David?
David:   Yes?
Quinn:   Um... I like you.
David:   I like you, too.
Quinn:   No, I mean I LIKE-like you.
David:   Oh. Look...
Quinn:   I mean, I never thought I could really LIKE-like someone who wasn't, you know, really cute -- not that you're uncute -- but you know what I mean. You don't try to be cute. Not that I would ever try to make you try to be cute.

InSecurity
Alex:  So you liked me?
Randy:  As a friend. I didn't LIKE YOU-like you. Well, maybe a little. I just didn't wanna breach lab partner protocol.

Friends
[Ross is still bitter that Rachel has return a present he gave her to the store. A commercial for sunglasses comes on TV.]
Rachel:   Ooh, I like those sunglasses.
Ross:   LIKE-'EM-like-'em? Or, I'd-like-to-get-store-credit-for-that-amount like 'em?
[NLLT example: 1b]
[NLLT example: 41a]
[NLLT example: 84c]

Freaky Friday (2003)
Listen, I feel really stupid. You know, it's just yesterday was freaky, and, I mean, I see your mom, and I like her. I mean, not LIKE-HER-like-her, but, you know, I mean, like her as your mom. Listen, do you think we could just rewind this whole thing and start again?

Dawson's Creek
Dawson:   Oh. I got something to tell you that I have a feeling will keep you awake. I like your sister, Pacey.
Pacey:   You like her, or you LIKE-HER-like-her?

Seinfeld
Elaine: Ha hum... Do you like George?
Paula: Yeah! He's cool.
Elaine: No, I mean... Do you like him or do you LIKE-HIM-like-him?
Paula: LIKE-like. Looks aren't important to me, you know?

Cloudy with a Chance of Meatballs
A:  Look, I like you, okay?
B:  Like ~ Like, as a friend?
A:  No. Like, LIKE-YOU-like-you.

Dawson's Creek
Mary Beth:   Look Dawson, you're a nice guy and I like you. Do I LIKE-YOU-like-you? No. You're a little too neurotic for that.
[NLLT example: 41d]

One Life to Live
Todd:   All right, you listen to me now, and you listen -- like LISTEN-listen, OK? You don't redesign anything. So whatever you did, you put it back the way it was. You got that?
[later]

Gabrielle, you're not LISTENING-listening, OK? The only thing that I want you to redesign is your attitude. If you want keep that job, you don't do anything --

Wonder Years
Narrator:   Now, most people don't know this but there are two kinds of logic. There's LOGIC-logic and then there's 12-year-old-in-love logic.

A:   He has long hair?
B:   Not LONG-long hair.

Love Liza
[Denny is getting ready to leave a boat-racing competition after winning in the quarter-finals, but losing in the semi-finals.]
Denny:   Do tennis players stay and watch other tennis players win?
Wilson:   I don't know.
Denny:   No, they don't. Losers leave.
Wilson:   You didn't... LOSE-lose.
Denny:   Wilson, I'm not in the finals, which means we don't have to drive in the dark.

The Wackness (2008)
Stephanie::   So, how come we, like, never hung out in school?
Lucas::   'Cause I was a loser. I mean, not like a LOSER-loser, you know, but I was definitely the most popular of the unpopular.

Forever Knight
Dr. Joyce (on the TV):   Well, there are two kinds of love, Jerry. There's wellness love, which is good love, healthy love, LOVE-love.

Arrested Development
George Michael:   She loves Saddam Hussein.
Michael:   I'm sure she doesn't love Saddam. I'm sure she is interested in him as a subject, you know.
George Michael:   Right. That's what I meant.
...
George Michael:   I kind of love her.
Michael:   You mean, you love her like... like she loves Saddam. Right?
George Michael:   No, no. I mean, like, LOVE-HER-love-her.

Wasted Talent (webcomic)
[frame titles]
Non-conformist madness.
Accordion madness.
MADNESS-madness. [picture of man screaming "I am the Mouse from Planet X."]


Shooting Fish
Dylan:   Don't think virgin Madonna, think MADONNA-Madonna.
[giving dating tips to his friend, Jez]

They just call him psycho-Marcus because they're trying to distinguish between him and MARCUS-Marcus and normal-Marcus.
[NLLT example: 9b]

Heights
A:  I ran into Mark the other day.
B:  MARK-Mark?

Away We Go
I don't know. I... I guess I just never gave that much thought to MARRIAGE-marriage.

Will and Grace
Will:   Yeah. She's here, and she's married.
Harlin:   Oh! Is she married like I'm married, or is she MARRIED-married?
Will:   I think somewhere in the middle. Drink?

Stargate Atlantis
[after characters have been split into Jekyll and Hyde halves]
Rodney:  Which one are you?
Jack:  Me.
Rodney:  Good you or bad you?
Jack:  ME-me. Is that YOU-you?
Rodney:  I think so.

Like many, I've fallen into an Internet romance -- many compelling e-mails and instant messages exchanged with an attractive, very sexual, captivating woman. ... She confesses to loving the literary me, but not the ME-me.
letter to advice columnist Cary Tennis, salon.com, June 17, 2003

Frasier
Kate:   No, I am not going down that road again.
Frasier:   'Course you're not. Because at the end of that road is a cul-de-sac of vulnerability. That's not you, is it? No, you're cement-hard.
Kate:   [incredulous] "Cul-de-sac of vulnerability"? [fed-up] Alright, listen. You see me for a couple of hours out of every day, and you think you know me? The ME-me? Alright, I can be tough - okay, I've gotta be. I can also be tender. Spontaneous. Shy. Lusty. Playful.
[NLLT example: 11b]

Frasier
Roz:   Hold on, Frasier. Cashmere for under 40 bucks? I'll take one in black. In medium. Wait, is that MEDIUM-medium or unrealistic-anorexic-model-medium?
Mindy:   It sounds like you might want to go for the large.

He needs MONEY-money?
[one cashier to another regarding reimbursing in cash rather than by cheque]

I considered my mother's stepmother a relative. I never knew my mother's MOTHER-mother.

The Facts of Life
[the headmaster introducing Mrs. Garrett to Blair Warner's mother ]
Mrs. Garrett, Blair's housemother -- Mrs. Warner, Blair's MOTHER-mother.

Days of Our Lives
Sami:   You know, I've been thinking, um, maybe we should move.
Austin:   Yeah, I mean, of course we're not going to keep two separate apartments.
Sami:   No, I mean MOVE-move. I mean move out of Salem.

The Kids are All Right
Kid 1:  Hey, you wanna watch a movie?
Kid 2:  A MOVIE-movie?
[i.e., a porn movie]

Liam Lacey, The Globe and Mail, November 26, 2004
[start of review]
During this pre-Christmas cinematic bang, when the multiplexes are bursting with animated fairy tales, event movies and bookish adaptations, you might find yourself with a craving for a real MOVIE-movie.
[end of review]
It must be admitted that, for a MOVIE-movie, Infernal Affairs is subversively arty.

Made in Canada
[The speakers are talking about a former colleague's recent lawsuit against them.]
A:   That doesn't sound like Murray.
B:   Remember that he joined that cult, the Spiritologists?
A:   MURRAY-Murray!?
[NLLT example: 10]

[B is about to give a recital.]
A:   Are you nervous?
B:   Yeah, but, you know, not NERVOUS-nervous.
[NLLT example: 4b]
[NLLT example: 13]
[NLLT example: 84b]

Chillicothe
[voice-over of a man thinking of all his friends' recent weddings]
Kevin:   And it's weird, because I realized I was next. I mean, it's like I knew already. Well, I wasn't NEXT-next. That would be...
[cut to scene of another friend's wedding]

Little Mosque on the Prairie
Amaar:  There's no budget for a new set.
Yasir:  That is why I will build you one for nothing.
Amaar:  NOTHING-nothing, or Yasir-nothing?

CBC, February 14, 2010
Michael Enright:   Now, a true life novel. How is that different from a NOVEL-novel.

Imagine that
A:  Take this down to graphics and add it to my chart, all right?
B:  After I...
A:  Now.
B:  What about the...
A:  Hey, NOW-now, man.

Caroline in the City
Caroline:   I know, but I didn't think you meant NUTS-nuts. I thought you meant raisin nipple nuts. Oh my god, I mean, she was just so convincing! I feel like a fool!
[get context -- SCRPT121.HTM]

Instant Star
A:   I think she's okay.
B:   OKAY-okay, or "faking it through the worst heartbreak of my life" okay?

I think she's OLDER-older.
[in reference to relative sibling ages]
[NLLT example: 32d]

Between the Covers, CBC, February 11, 2010
She was wearing an orange shirt. But she was blind, so I don't think she knew that it was ORANGE-orange.

Silver Linings Playbook
A:  Yeah, I'm out.
B:  Yeah? You're OUT-out? [i.e., legally released from the mental institution]
A:  Uh-huh.

Run's House
[to his daughter on the morning of her high-school graduation]
Do you feel, like, excited, Ange, today? Or because you're going to college, it doesn't feel like you're really OUT-out?

She's like gonna go OUT-out tonight.
[so just coming over to our house isn't going to suffice]

Veep
[The vice-president and her staff are discussing whether one of her embarrasing remarks has become public.]
Aide:  Hey, we're getting some press interest in this already.
...
VP:  So it's definitely OUT-THERE-out-there?
Aide:  No, no, no. It's not OUT-THERE-out-there.
Secretary:   Well, I heard about it, Dan. So it sort of is OUT-THERE-out-there. That's why I'm IN-HERE-in-here, Dan.

Jess
'Cause you're not ready to let him [your ex-boyfriend] go. I think you know deep down, once you get your stuff back, you know, it's OVER-over.

Daria
Brittany:   I've had it! Kevin and I are finally over for good!
Angie:   Is it OVER-over, like the time he got you a football for your birthday, or just over, like the time he thought your goldfish needed air?
Brittany:   No, this time it's really OVER-over. And as fellow cheerleaders, you have to swear on a stack of pompoms not to go to the dance with that two-timing, scum of the earth, Kevin.

Sex and the City
To some, pain implies growth. But how do we know when the growing pains stop and the PAIN-pains take over?
[NLLT example: 31e]

I want PAPER-paper, the-kind-you-can-write-on paper.
[after being offered a newspaper]

Lost Girl
[at a wake]
Kenzie, this isn't a PARTY-party.

Vampire Diaries
Well, it's not for you. It's a PARTY-party.

Felicity
Elena:   Well, if it's alright with you, I made an executive decision to have a painting party on Friday.
Noel:   A painting party?
Elena:   Not a PARTY-party. Just hanging out. We'll get a few people in here to help get rid of this ugly wallpaper.

The Bold and the Beautiful
Kristen:   Honey, that's really sweet. But it's not really a PARTY-party. It's more of a small family get-together. So I think your friend might feel a little uncomfortable.

The Webcomic Overlook (blog)
The Hollywood Reporter reports some pretty big news — there’s gonna be a movie based on a Penny Arcade comic. Not PENNY ARCADE-Penny Arcade ... but the New Kid spin-off they did not too long ago.

Home Improvement
Jill:   Anyway, it's at two o'clock on Saturday and a lot of people from work are gonna be there.
Tim:   D'you mean a lot of PEOPLE-people, or a lot of women-people?
[NLLT example: 33b]

My Wife and Kids
[Awants to know if B (a guy in a wheelchair) can still get an erection]
A:  Hey, can I ask you a personal question?
B:  Well, this whole conversation is personal, but yeah.
A:  No, I mean like PERSONAL-personal.

No, I need a PIN-pin.
[in response to being handed a safety pin]

A:  Does that mean I get to play?
B:  If you're playing, it's like for PLAY-play. You know you ain't getting paid, right?

Dawson's Creek
Joey:   Strip poker. I leave you alone for 2 seconds, and you end up playing strip poker?
Pacey:   Originally this was just POKER-poker, until I started kicking his ass. Then your friendly neighborhood co-worker decides to change the stakes on me, but I'm finished now, and, uh, we can just leave?

[Jay Leno talking about drug-testing for prisoners]
What if they fail the test? Do they go to PRISON-prison?
The Tonight Show, May 4, 2000

InSecurity
[All spies in the agency are about to undergo a polygraph test to find who leaked documents.]
A:  Problem. PROBLEM-problem.
B:  I know. I never should have given LavaLife my work e-mail.
A:  No. I'm dating polygraph guy's girlfriend.
B:  That is a PROBLEM-problem.

Joan of Arcadia
[family in a family therapy session]
Helen:   Well, this wasn't for our problems. This was to help the kids.
Will:   Our problems affect the kids.
Helen:   [to therapist]
He doesn't mean PROBLEM-problems.

We had a guest prof, and a guy in the class was opening an e-mail attachment that cranked the volume up, and there's a sound attachment that yells out "Hey everyone, I'm looking at porno!" and the PROF-prof was just shaking his head in shame.

Roswell
Michael:   OK. OK, sure. Me and you, tomorrow night, nothing but fun. I promise.
Maria:   Do you really promise?
Michael:   I PROMISE-promise.
Maria:   Can I have a Snapple?

Finding Amanda
Rape? Raping you? Your father's brother RAPE-raped you?

I talk about it in the book, but I don't tell what REALLY-really happened.
[author of a book about alien abductions]
[This one could be analyzed as just repeating the really, but it had exactly the same stress and rhythm as a CR, not the stress and rhythm of an ordinary repeated really. ]

13 Going on 30
A:   What colour is my tongue?
B:   I don't know. Red?
A:   RED-red or tongue red?
B:   Razzle red. [Razzles are the candies A was just eating.]

Customer:   Could I get a regular coffee, please?
Employee:   REGULAR-regular?
[at a trendy coffee shop with too many choices.]

I could never be with a guy in a RELATIONSHIP-relationship.
[NLLT example: 36a]

Sounds Like Canada
Shelagh Rogers:   Do you mean RELATIONSHIPS-relationships or just relationships?
k.d. lang:   Oh, all sorts of relationships.

Pumpkin
Carolyn:  He's mentally retarded.
Doctor:  You say retarded. Retarded's not a medical term. How retarded?
Carolyn:  RETARDED-retarded.

They are rich, of course; obscenely rich by the world's standards; but not RICH-rich, not New York City rich.
Michael Cunningham, The Hours, Picador: New York. 1998, p. 91
We'd like to thank Roland Pfau not only for sending us this example but for also looking up the relevant sentence in the more recently published German translation. It reads: "... aber nicht richtig reich, nicht nach den Maßstäben von New York City." (... but not really rich, not after the standards of NYC.) [NLLT example: 5a]

Murder She Wrote
[This mandatory end-of-the-show murder confession came from a real estate agent. ]
You know what it's like, working with the rich all these years, not being rich ourselves - not RICH-rich.

Happy Endings
[Penny has switched to a different martial arts class]
Jane:  Are you not going to Krav?
Penny:  Not anymore. Jazz Kwon Do is really fun. And you made Krav too intense.
Jane:  It's supposed to be intense. If someone breaks into your house, they are not going to jazz-rob you. They're gonna to ROB-rob you or MURDER-murder you. Okay, I am doing this for your own good.

10 Items or Less
Cashier:  And if I just leave Lee here, the place will probably get robbed again.
Actor:  Robbed? Like, ROBBED-robbed?
Cashier:  Where do you think you are?

Frasier
Frasier:   Niles is up here with Roz.
Daphne:   Roz? You mean ROZ-Roz?

Tim Horton's commercial
[Some time after a coffee-shop customer tells an employee he's in a rush.]
Employee:  You're still here?
Customer:  It's not a RUSH-rush.

I'll make the tuna salad and you make the SALAD-salad.
[NLLT example: 1a]
[NLLT example: 3a]

Popular
When can I see you?
You are seeing me.
I mean SEE-YOU-see-you.

Buffy the Vampire Slayer
Buffy:   I thought you were gonna go see Tara.
Willow:  [unhappy]
Saw her. Saw her completely.
Buffy:   Ouch. Just got a scratch from all that brittle.
Willow:   It's... when I was seeing her, she was seeing someone else. A girl.
Buffy:   You mean--
Willow:   I mean ... not SEEING-seeing. Well, maybe. I don't know, it was inconclusive, and I didn't stick around to find out. Might have magicked my fist through a wall or something.
Buffy:   Will, I'm sorry.
Willow:   I mean, they're probably just friends. [pouty]
I press my lips against my friends' all the time.

Totally SELF-self directed.
newspaper ad for a self-directed Retirement Savings Plan
[NLLT example: 40a]

Felicity
Friend:   You guys are getting pretty serious.
Felicity:   No! I mean, not SERIOUS-serious.

It's a Disaster
A:  I think she's in shock.
B:  We're all in shock.
A:  No, SHOCK-shock. Real shock.

I'm not SICK-sick. It's just that I had surgery two weeks ago.
[someone explaining over dinner at a restaurant why she has to choose from the menu carefully. Others in the group had been complaining about feeling under-the-weather.]

Tripping the Rift
A:   Have you considered a career in slaving?
B:   Isn't that the same thing we did under the dark clowns?
A:   Oh no, that was SLAVE-slaveing. This is wage-slaving.

Daria
Brittany:   Oh, Kevvy, I only kissed Robert to get even with you for kissing Zoe, it didn't mean anything, and now I know you do love me and you really mean it when you say smart doesn't matter, although I think I'm smarter than you think I am, although I know I'm not smarter than the really SMART-smart people, so I forgive you! Kevvy? Kevvy?

Shooting Fish
Jez:   I'm sorry.
Dylan:   You're sorry or you're SORRY-sorry?
Jez:   I'm SORRY-sorry.

A special relationship or a SPECIAL-special relationship.
[someone responding to a joking remark about the closeness of their relationship]

Scott Pilgrim vs. the World
Scott:   Hey, just out of sheer curiosity and concern for my mortal well-being, is there anyone at this party that you haven't slept with?
Ramona:   I think we should split.
Scott:   As in get out of here, or as in SPLIT-split?

Little Mosque on the Prairie
[Rayaan started eating a chocolate bar in a store before discovering she'd forgotten her wallet.]
Amaar:   So you stole a chocolate bar?
Rayaan:   I didn't STEAL-steal it. I just didn't pay.

Shameless (US)
A:  Which Steve?
B:  You know, STEVE-Steve. Fiona's new Steve.

American Pie
Nadia:  Well. You have seen me. Now it is my turn to see you. Strip.
Jim:  Strip?
Nadia:  Yes, slowly.
Jim:  You mean like, STRIP-strip?

Gilmore Girls
[Lorelai is acting distracted since Max asked her to marry him.]
Lorelai:   I got stuff on my mind.
Rory:   Max stuff?
Lorelai:   No, STUFF-stuff.
Rory:   You're lying.

I like wind-surfing not SURF-surfing.
[male, 70 years old]
[NLLT example: 37]

Host:   Was there anything really surprising in it?
Interviewee:   Well, not SURPRISING-surprising.
[Radio interview (NPR, Wichita) about the report of a study]
[NLLT example: 36b]

Alice Fantastic, by Maggie Estep, p. 20
I made out nicely and that put me slightly at ease and reduced some of the Clayton-induced aggravation that had gotten so severe I hadn't been able to eat my omelet and had started fantasizing about asking Vito to take Clayton out. Not TAKE-HIM-OUT-take-him-out, I didn't want the guy dead or anything, but just put a scare into him.

Wonderfalls
But just because a scripture says God's talking doesn't mean he's TALK-talking. People tend to take license with that detail. It's not always gonna be, "Hello, Jaye."

In fact I barely talked to him. Not TALK-talked.
Alex Garland, The Beach
[NLLT example: 31d]
[NLLT example: 66c]

I talked to him that week, but I didn't TALK-TO-HIM-talk-to-him.
[speaker explaining why she hadn't broken some news to someone when she had said she would]
[NLLT example: 42b]

The Goldbergs
Son:  I really screwed things up with a girl.
Father:  Yeah, tell me about it.
Son:  Well, her name's Dana.
Father:  No, I didn't mean TELL-ME-ABOUT-IT-tell-me-about-it. I meant I screwed up with a girl too.
Son:  So is the girl Mom?
Father:  Yes, it's Mom!

Sounds Like Canada
Not in the TEMPLE-temple, but in a building next door to the temple, but still on temple grounds.

A Bride for Christmas
A:  He's the one. Yup. Aiden is the one.
B:  What do you mean? Like THE-ONE-the-one?
A:  Like the one!

And it's there. Not just out there, but THERE-there.
[on the pressures contributing to obesity]
Shelagh Rogers, Sounds Like Canada, November 12, 2003

E. Lockhart, The Boyfriend List, Delacorte Press, 2005, pp 36-37
"...It was dead in there and his boss was off, so he came and sat with me." Kim looked down at her lap.
"Was it a thing?" I asked.
"Yeah," she said. "I think it was a thing."
"What kind of thing?" Cricket wanted to know.
"A THING-thing."
"A THING-thing? You mean, really?"
"Maybe."
"Well, was it, or wasn't it?"
"Okay, it was. It was definitely a THING-thing."
"Wait a minute," I said. "Are you saying there was kissing?"
Kim looked at the sky. "I'm not saying there wasn't."
"You kissed Finn Murphy?" squealed Cricket.
"Cricket!"
"Kanga had a THING-thing/kissing thing with Finn Murphy yesterday afternoon and we're only hearing about it now?" Cricket sounded outraged.
"I had a lot of homework," said Kim.
"That's no excuse. You could have e-mailed us, at least," said Cricket. "You are shockingly out of line, young lady. THING-things with stud-muffins that no one else knows about? What is the world coming to?"
"Wait!" I held up my hand. "It's only a real and true THING-thing if the kissing was good."

Pushing Daisies
A:  How long have you been thinking about this?
B:  Like THINKING-thinking? That wasn't premeditated, I wasn't lying in wait. More like I was musing on the idea. Not, you know, dwelling. There were times I did dwell on you, about you, a little. But I wasn't seriously considering till the exact moment I did it. Or didn't do it.

Twilight
They're, um, Dr. And Mrs. Cullen's foster kids. They moved down here from Alaska, like, a few years ago.
They kind of keep to themselves.
Yeah, 'cause they're all together. Like, TOGETHER-together. Um, the blonde girl, that's Rosalie, and the big dark-haired guy, Emmett, they're, like, a thing. I'm not even sure that's legal.

Felicity
Noel:   So you...you and Ben are together?
Julie:   Yes.
Noel:   Good for you.
Julie:   We're not...we're not TOGETHER-together. We're just...we're hanging out. A lot.

Wonder Years
Becky:   Supposedly, Susan thought she saw John and Gina together, you know, like together. But they weren't TOGETHER-together, they were just studying together. But Susan might break up anyway.

Angel
Anita:   But you are together.
Groo:  [putting a hand on Angel's shoulder]
Yes! Two champions here together.
Angel:  [pushing Groo's hand off]
Not TOGETHER-together. Just "get the potion" together.

As the World Turns
Abigail:   Bryant saw Jennifer and his cousin together.
Nick:   TOGETHER-together?
Abigail:   Yeah, and he found out that Adam and I knew all about it.

Days of Our Lives
Chloe:   It's not like Philip and I are TOGETHER-together, it's -- we're just hanging out, seeing how things go.

One Life to Live
Blair:   He's very lucky to have you in his life, Nora. Especially now.
Nora:   I'm hardly in his life at the moment.
Blair:   I know that you guys aren't TOGETHER-together, but when I walked in here just now, it's obvious that you still care about him. I'm right to say that? I mean, you do still care about Sam, right?

Greek
A:  Because I would like us to have sex. Tonight.
B:  Oh! Okay, tonight. TONIGHT-tonight?

[At the last meeting before summer break of a committee whose minutes have to be approved in order to be legally binding]
Chair:   We should approve tonight's minutes.
Secretary:   We just did. [pointing to the just-approved minutes of the previous meeting]

Chair:   No, TONIGHT'S-tonight's minutes.
[I.e., we should pre-approve the minutes of the current meeting before they're written.]
[NLLT example: 32f]

Dawson's Creek
Advisor:   That can work to your advantage. Elite schools are generally looking for people with diverse backgrounds. You're at the top of your class, Joey.
Joey:   The TOP-top?
Advisor:   Number 4, and your board scores are phenomenal. I think that you should be able to get into practically any place in the country.

Kick Ass
A:   Our Russian says that Tre just sold him another five keys at half price.
B:   Which Tre? TRE-Tre?
A:   Right. Dead Tre.

Dawson's Creek
Jen:   What do you want me to say?
Dawson:   The truth.
Jen:   OK, the TRUTH-truth, or the what-Dawson-wants-to-hear truth?

As the World Turns
Rosanna:   I like the sound of that. Even though I know I would be a fool to believe every word you say.
Craig:   Baby [kisses Rosanna] -- baby -- but there was truth in that.
Rosanna:   TRUTH-truth, or convenient-in-the-moment truth?
Craig:   What's the difference?

Away We Go
So what are you looking for? A Jacuzzi-type thing? Or a TUB-tub?

The Simpsons
A:   You said you wanted "gritty", that means ugly.
B:   Marianne-of-Gilligan's-Island ugly, not Cornelius-of-Planet-of-the-Apes ugly. TV ugly, not UGLY-ugly.
[The actor in question, overhearing this, says afterwards something like "I've been called ugly before, but I've never been called UGLY-ugly!"]

[A phones B early in the morning.]
A:   Sorry. Did I get you up?
B:   I'm up, I'm just not UP-up.
[NLLT example: 1d]

No, I didn't get UP-up.
[someone experiencing temporary insomnia responding to concern.]

Once and Again
Lily:   You have to get up.
Rick:   I am up.
Lily:   I mean UP-up.
[NLLT example: 4c]

Look at all the yellow vans on the road. Not vans like ours [i.e., minivans], but VAN-vans.
[NLLT example: 3b]
[NLLT example: 31c]

Once Upon A Time
[about a coma patient]
A:  He woke up.
B:  What?
A:  I mean, he didn't WAKE-UP-wake-up, but he grabbed my hand.

M*A*S*H
Henry Blake:  Look, folks. You've picked a very busy spot. The war comes through here. Well, not war in your war-fighting sense, but rather in your aftermath sense, which is still WAR-war.

The Critic
Dressmaker:   Here's the skinny. We dressmakers have a very strict code, so I need to know, do you deserve to wear virginal white? Because if you don't, you'll have to wear an off-white, what we call a hussy white. So which will it be, WHITE-white?
Margo:   Yes. Um... except for the gloves.

She's a WIFE-wife.
[meaning "stay-at-home, subordinate-your-career-to-your-man wife" (German native speaker) ]

Frasier
Caller:   Dr. Crane? It's Woody. I'm in Seattle and I'm a little lost.
Frasier:   Well Woody, in today's fast paced, high pressure society that's not uncommon. Just why exactly do you feel lost?
Caller:   Well, I've been driving around for about an hour, I can't seem to get out of the airport.
Frasier:   [the penny drops]
Oh, WOODY-Woody. Oh well, listeners, this is an old friend of mine from back in Boston. Well, how you doin' there, you old cowpoke?

Wednesday is my WORK-work day.
[stay-at-home mother explaining that since her ex has the kids from Tuesday night till after school Wednesday, this is the day she gets all the housework, laundry, gardening done]
[NLLT example: 40b]

Charmed
Phoebe:   Are you moving out?
Paige:   No, just cleaning out.
Piper:   Your art supplies?
Paige:   Well, between witch work and WORK-work, I just don't have any time any more.

Guiding Light
Buzz:   [stammers]
No, I mean, you know, it's like labor for you in the gulag. I wouldn't want to make it worse.
Marina:   No, I mean, I don't mind, like, giving you a hand if you need one. I mean, it could be different from the whole punishment thing. You know, like actual WORK-work.
Buzz:   Are you asking me for a job?

Charmed
Phoebe:   Grams, it's a boy. Look at the outfit.
Grams:   What?
Paige:   You didn't know?
Grams:   Well, no, I--I mean, I just assumed it was a -- what went wrong?
Leo:   Wrong?
[Grams turns around to look at Leo. She immediately tries to cover her insult.]
Grams:   Oh, well, I--I don't mean WRONG-wrong, it's just that we've always had... girls.
Piper:   Now we have a boy.

Jenny Everywhere and the crossing over worlds (webcomic), 2007, Fesworks
[Jenny Everywhere is a "public domain" webcomic character, drawn by several different artists in stories in several alternate universes.]
Jenny:   Actually, I am also trying to find my "author".
B:   Well, you don't merely have one author, being Jenny Everywhere and all... Of course, I will assume you're looking for the one that made YOU-you.
Jenny:   Yeah, ME-me. Whatever. I need to find the bastard.

Zombieland
[After attacking Bill Murray, one of the few surviving humans, but disguised as a zombie.]
I'm sorry. I didn't know that it was YOU-you.

Buffy the Vampire Slayer
Giles:   I'm afraid he was, he was, um, terribly mauled. Now, uh, much as I hate to think it, i-i-it could be the handiwork of, of...
Oz (a werewolf):   Me.
Willow:   Wolf you, not YOU-you.
Xander: But it's not. Not wolf you, not YOU-you.

Chances Are
A:   Is it me?
B:   No, it's not you ... I mean, yes it's you but it's not YOU-you.

Virtual Sexuality
[A freak computer accident has transformed Justine into a man named Jake.]
Chas:   Fran's been asking after you.
Justine/Jake:   She's obviously getting frantic.
Chas:   No, you. YOU-you, not the other you, not Justine.
Justine/Jake:   Fran's been asking about Jake?

Fired Up!
Donny liked you. Like liked-you liked-you.

"The Bean Bean"
[heading found after a description of many different types of beans]
Patrick Lima, The Kitchen Garden, Toronto: Key Porter, 1992, p. 96
thanks to David Heap for this example